UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD


Re:	Standard for Determining Joint-Employer Status	RIN 3142-AA21






COMMENTS OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR & CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS (AFL-CIO)









Craig Becker Maneesh Sharma
815 Black Lives Matter Plz. Washington, D.C. 20006
(202) 637-5310
cbecker@aflcio.org Counsel for the AFL-CIO

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. The Board Should Rescind its Current Joint-Employer Rule Because it is Inconsistent with the Common Law and the Policies of the Act, and Creates
Confusion	2
A. The Board's 2020 Rule Eliminates Consideration of Reserved and Indirect Control, and Control over Mandatory but Non - "Essential"
Terms, from the Joint Employer Analysis	3
B. The Board's Current Treatment of Reserved and Indirect Control, and Control over Mandatory Subjects of Bargaining Other Than the
Delineated Essential Terms, has no Basis in the Common Law of Agency	6
C. The Board's Current Joint-Employer Rule is Not Justified by the Policies
of the Act, and Indeed, it Undermines those Policies	13
D. The Current Joint-Employer Rule's Framework Requires the Board and the Regulated Community to Categorize a Putative Joint Employer's Various Forms of Control, But the Rule Offers No Guidance How to
Do So	16
II. Instead of Revising the Joint-Employer Rule, the Board Should Return to
Developing the Joint-Employer Standard through Adjudication	18
III. The NPRM's Subsection (a) is Fully Consistent with Supreme Court Precedent
and Congressional Intent	19
IV. The NPRM's Proposed Subsection (b) Properly Restores the Board's
Joint-Employer Standard to its Long-Standing Core	20
V. The NPRM's Subsection (c) Properly Identifies the Relevant Forms of Control
under the Common Law of Agency	21
VI. The NPRM's Subsection (d) Should be Revised so that the Essential Terms and Conditions are those Statutory Terms to Which the Bargaining Obligation
Extends-Wages, Hours, and Other Terms and Conditions of Employment	23
VII. The NPRM's Subsection (e) may Cause Confusion and Should Be Revised	27
VIII. The NPRM's Subsection (f) Should be Revised to More Clearly Delineate
What Evidence is Irrelevant to the Common-Law Analysis	29
IX. The NPRM's Subsection (h) is Appropriate, but the Board Should Further Make
Clear that Its Rescission Decision is Severable from its Proposed Revisions	31
X. Conclusion	32

      The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) is a federation of 58 national and international unions representing over 12.5 million working people. The AFL-CIO submits these comments in response to the National Labor Relations Board's Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM) concerning the "Standard for Determining Joint-Employer Status." 87 Fed. Reg. 54641 (Sept. 7, 2022).
      The AFL-CIO urges the Board to rescind its current regulation, 29 C.F.R. § 103.40, adopted by a final rule issued on February 26, 2020. See 85 Fed. Reg. 11235 ("2020 Rule"). The 2020 Rule establishes a framework that relegates relevant forms of control to a subordinate status, which is inconsistent with the common law. This framework appears to be wholly unique in American jurisprudence; we are aware of no other adjudicatory body that treats forms of control relevant under the common law as subordinate to other forms of control, and dependent on those superior forms of control in order to even potentially factor into the analysis. This anomalous framework has sown confusion among the regulated community, and must be abandoned.
      However, the AFL-CIO urges the Board to not proceed to adopt the remainder of the proposal in the NPRM. As explained below, the Board should instead make clear that by rescinding 29 C.F.R. § 130.40, that rule's displacement of the standard established in Browning- Ferris Industries of Cal., Inc., 362 NLRB 1599 (2015) ("BFI"), is of no force or effect. The Board should then return to addressing its joint-employer standard through adjudication, as it had for decades until the 2020 Rule. This approach would align with the fact-intensive, case-by-case inquiry required by the common law. Alternatively, the AFL-CIO urges the Board to limit its new rule to solely clarifying that the Board's joint-employer analysis is governed by the principles of the common-law of agency.

      If the Board does decide to proceed with the remaining revisions proposed in the NPRM, the AFL-CIO supports those revisions, but suggests certain changes as described below.
Additionally, if the Board proceeds with these revisions, it should make clear that its decision to rescind the 2020 Rule, and thus return to the pre-2020 Rule status quo, is severable from its decision to make the revisions to the rule.
I. The Board Should Rescind its Current Joint-Employer Rule Because it is Inconsistent with the Common Law and the Policies of the Act, and Creates Confusion

      The Board's current regulation at 29 C.F.R. § 103.40 sets forth an improperly narrow joint-employer standard. Under the rule, the Board will find joint employment where "two employers share or codetermine [a group of] employees' essential terms and conditions of employment." 29 C.F.R. § 103.40(a). To this general qualifying condition, the rule applies a
number of limits. First, to be found to share or codetermine the essential terms and conditions of employment, an employer must "possess and exercise [] substantial direct and immediate control over one or more essential terms or conditions of their employment[.]" Id. Substantial direct and immediate control does not include control "exercised on a sporadic, isolated, or de minimis basis." 29 C.F.R. § 103.40(d). Second, evidence of indirect control, reserved but unexercised control, or control over mandatory subjects of bargaining other than the delineated essential
terms and conditions "is probative of joint-employer status, but only to the extent it supplements and reinforces evidence of the entity's possession or exercise of direct and immediate control over a particular essential term and condition of employment." 29 CFR 103.40(a). Third, the rule limits the essential terms and conditions of employment to "wages, benefits, hours of work, hiring, discharge, discipline, supervision, and direction." 29 C.F.R. § 103.40(b). Fourth, the rule narrowly defines what constitutes direct and immediate control over the essential terms; for

instance, it disregards evidence of supervision that is "limited and routine and consist[s] primarily of telling another employer's employees what work to perform, or where and when to perform the work, but not how to perform it." 29 C.F.R. § 103.40(c) & (c)(7).
      These limitations to the general qualifying condition are inconsistent with the common law, undermine-rather than effectuate-the policies of the Act, and create confusion in application. Accordingly, the Board now correctly proposes to rescind the rule.
A. The Board's 2020 Rule Eliminates Consideration of Reserved and Indirect Control, and Control over Mandatory but Non-"Essential" Terms, from the Joint Employer Analysis

      The Board's 2020 Rule improperly focuses exclusively on direct and immediate control. A party alleging joint employment must initially prove the putative joint employer "possess[es] and exercise[s] substantial direct and immediate control over one or more essential terms or conditions[.]" 29 C.F.R. § 103.40(a) (emphasis added). This focus on substantial direct and immediate control renders other forms of control-specifically, reserved and indirect control and control over mandatory subjects of bargaining that are not on the exhaustive list of essential terms-irrelevant. The rule confirms the irrelevance of these forms of control by giving them probative value "only to the extent" they "supplement[] and reinforce[] evidence of the [putative joint employer's] possession or exercise of direct and immediate control over a particular essential term and condition of employment." Id. (emphasis added). In other words, evidence of reserved or indirect control, or control over non-"essential" terms, is probative only to supplement evidence of direct and immediate control over a particular term of employment.
Accordingly, the evidence of additional forms of control is totally dependent on the existence of direct and immediate control over a particular term of employment, and only as further evidence of the existence of direct and immediate control over that term of employment.

      This framework of superior and subordinate forms of common law control-wholly unique in American jurisprudence1-renders the subordinate forms of control irrelevant. On its face, the rule makes significant categories of reserved and indirect control, and control over non- "essential" terms, entirely irrelevant where evidence of those forms of control does not supplement and reinforce evidence of direct and immediate control over a particular term of employment. A putative joint employer could then, for instance, contractually retain an unlimited amount of control over various terms and conditions (wages, for example)-but not yet exercise that control at the time of hearing before a regional director or administrative law judge-and that evidence would be entirely irrelevant because it does not supplement and reinforce any evidence of direct and immediate control. Indeed, the Board said as much in the preamble to its final rule, where it explained that "the fact that an entity has a contractually reserved right to control an essential term or condition is probative of whether it possesses control over that term." 83 Fed. Reg. 11186. Probative value as to possession of control is meaningless, as an entity must "posses and exercise substantial direct and immediate control" to be found a joint employer. 29 C.F.R. § 103.40(a) (emphasis added).
      Even when evidence of reserved and indirect control, as well as control over non- "essential" terms, is cognizable, the Board's current rule gives those forms of control no weight independent of direct and immediate control. Those subordinate forms of control are then never probative of joint-employer status; evidence that they exist is only cognizable as additional proof of direct and immediate control over essential terms of employment. That is, the Board's current joint-employer standard establishes an evidentiary rule that allows consideration of the


1 The Board obviously adopted this sui generis test in an attempt to facially satisfy the D.C.
Circuit's holding in Browning-Ferris Industries of Cal., Inc. v. NLRB, 911 F.3d 1995 (D.C. Cir. 2018) while not actually accepting the Court's holding.

subordinate forms of control solely to support a finding that a putative joint employer possesses and exercises direct and immediate control over a particular term of employment. But only direct and immediate control over essential terms of employment is considered when finding a joint employer. If anyone missed that the subordinate forms of control are irrelevant to a finding of joint employment, the Board hammered home the point in its preamble to the final rule, where it stated that these forms of control are "not ... probative of whether [an] entity 'meaningfully affects matters relating to the employment relationship.' Under the final rule, a putative joint employer reaches that threshold only through possession and exercise of substantial direct and immediate control over one or more essential terms and conditions of employment." 83 Fed.
Reg. 11186.

      Finally, as a practical matter, it is entirely unlikely that evidence of reserved and indirect control or control over a non-essential term of employment will ever factor into a joint-employer analysis under the current rule. Evidence that a putative joint employer exercises substantial direct control over a particular essential term of employment will likely always be sufficient to find that the employer exercises substantial direct and immediate control over that essential term. That the joint employer also possesses contractually reserved control over that particular essential term will rarely, if ever, be necessary to the legal conclusion. Moreover, it is unclear how a putative joint employer could exercise both direct and immediate control and indirect control over the same essential term of employment. But even if it could, the evidence of indirect control will also rarely, if ever, be material to the determination of whether the putative joint employer possesses and exercises direct and immediate control over the essential term.
      Accordingly, the Board's current joint-employer rule eliminates consideration of indirect and reserved control, as well as control over mandatory subjects that are not one of the

delineated essential terms. For the reasons explained below, this is inconsistent with the common law, and warrants the Board rescinding the rule.
B. The Board's Current Treatment of Reserved and Indirect Control, and Control over Mandatory Subjects of Bargaining Other Than the Delineated Essential Terms, has no Basis in the Common Law of Agency

In Browning-Ferris Industries of Cal., Inc. v. NLRB, the D.C. Circuit held that "the

National Labor Relations Act's test for joint-employer status is determined by the common law of agency." 911 F.3d 1195, 1206 (D.C. Cir. 2018) ("Browning-Ferris v. NLRB"); see id. at 1208 ("The Board's [joint-employer] rulemaking ... must color within the common-law lines
identified by the judiciary."). In Sanitary Truck Drivers and Helpers Local 350, Int'l Bhd. of Teamsters v. NLRB, the court affirmed that holding. 45 F.4th 38, 47 (D.C. Cir. 2022) (explaining that, in its earlier decision, the court had "made clear that the Board's joint-employer test must 'color within the common-law lines identified by the judiciary'"). The Board recognized the requirement that its joint-employer test be consistent with the common law when it adopted the 2020 Rule. See 83 FR 11185 ("Whether proceeding by adjudication or rulemaking, [] the Board 'must color within the common-law lines identified by the judiciary.'"). However, by eliminating reserved and indirect control and control over mandatory but non-essential terms of employment from the joint-employer calculus, the rule the Board adopted failed to deliver a test that was consistent with the common law.
      First, in determining whether an employment relationship exists under the common law, the Supreme Court has instructed that "all of the incidents of the relationship must be assessed and weighed with no one factor being decisive. What is important is that the total factual context is assessed." NLRB v. United Ins. Co. of Am., 390 U.S. 254, 258 (1968) (emphasis added).
Under the common law, the test has always been a multi-factor one that considers all evidence of

control over all terms and conditions of employment. See Restatement (Second) Agency § 220(2) ("In determining whether one acting for another is a servant or an independent contractor, the following matters of fact, among others, are considered." (emphasis added)). Other enforcement agencies, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, agree that "all of the circumstances in the worker's relationship with each of the businesses should be considered to determine if either or both should be deemed his or her employer." EEOC Notice No. 915.002, Enforcement Guidance: Applications of EEO Law to Contingent Workers Placed by Temporary Employment Agencies and Other Staffing Firms at Coverage Issues (Dec. 3, 1997), available at https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-application-eeo-
laws-contingent-workers-placed-temporary. Accordingly, the current rule's effective elimination

of indirect and reserved control, as well as control over mandatory subjects other than the delineated essential terms, does not comport with the common-law requirement that the Board evaluate all evidence of control.
      Second, the common law of agency requires that the Board consider all evidence of reserved control over terms and conditions of employment in determining joint-employer status, and not limit its examination to whether reserved control supplements and reinforces a putative joint employer's possession and exercise of direct and immediate control over a particular term. In Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, the D.C. Circuit held that reserved authority, or the right to control workers and the terms and conditions of their employment, is a relevant factor in the joint employer analysis-indeed, a primary and not a secondary factor. See 911 F.3d at 1209-13.
Relying on the common law of agency, and its own precedent, the court emphasized the

longstanding and widespread acceptance of an employer's reserved right to control as a relevant factor for determining joint-employer status. Id. Consideration of the "reserved but unexercised

right to control" in the joint employer analysis is "extensive[ly] support[ed] in the common law of agency." Id. at 1209. This derives from the common law understanding of the master-servant relationship, which considers "retained but unexercised control" a key factor. Id. at 1210. For example, the D.C. Circuit cited Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Bond, 240 U.S. 449, 456 (1916), where the Supreme Court held that a worker was not an employee because the company did not "retain control" or "retain the right" to direct the operations or goals of the business. Id. The D.C. Circuit observed that the precedent on the inclusion of the right to control in a joint-employer analysis is "so clear" that even BFI admitted it was a relevant factor. Id. at 1211. Additionally, the court cited to the Restatement (Second) of Agency's identification of the right to control as a "principal guidepost" for deciding if an entity is an employer. Id. at 1211, citing Clackamas Gastroenterology Associates, P. C. v. Wells, 538 U.S. 440, 448 (2003) (quoting Restatement (Second) of Agency § 2(2)); see also Sanitary Truck Drivers, 45 F.4th at 46 ("the common-law rule is that unexercised control bears on employer status" (cleaned up)).
Indeed, the court described consideration of the right to control as "run[ning] like a leitmotif" through the Restatement (Second) of Agency and the common law more broadly. Id. at 1211. The 2020 Rule emphatically does not permit consideration of reserved control as a "principal guidepost."
      The D.C. Circuit made clear that reserved control cannot be relegated to a subordinate role, much less made virtually irrelevant. The court held, "Whether [two entities are] joint employers under the National Labor Relations Act depends upon the amount of actual and potential control that the putative joint employer ha[s] over the [] employees." Browning-Ferris
v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1209, quoting Int'l Chemical Workers Union Local 483 v. NLRB, 561 F.2d 253, 255 (D.C. Cir. 1977) (cleaned up; emphasis added). "[I]t is not the manner in which the

alleged master actually exercised his authority to control and direct the action of the servant which controls, but it is his right to do so that is important." Id. at 1212, quoting Dovell v. Arundel Supply Corp., 361 F.2d 543, 544 (D.C. Cir. 1966). The court observed that an employee determination "turn[s] on the [presence or] absence of authority in the principal to control." Id., quoting Logue v. United States, 412 U.S. 521, 527 (1973).
      Indeed, the court suggested that if there is any hierarchy of evidence, it is evidence of reserved control that is primary. The court quoted its prior decision in Dovell, 361 F.2d at 544:
The decisive test in determining whether the relation of master and servant exists is whether the employer has the right to control and direct the servant in the performance of his work and in the manner in which the work is to be done. It will be noted from the above, it is not the manner in which the alleged master actually exercised his authority to control and direct the action of the servant which controls, but it is his right to do so that is important.

Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1212 (emphasis added). And similarly in Grace v. Magruder, 148 F.2d 679, 681 (D.C. Cir. 1945): "The vital element which negatives such independence, in the relation between employer and employee, is the right to control the employee." Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1212 (emphasis added).
      Further, the court expressly rejected the suggestion that reserved authority is less significant than exercised authority. The court stated that Browning-Ferris argued that exercised authority is the "most important" part of an employer-or-independent-contractor analysis and
that the court should "import the same focus" for the joint-employer determination. Id. at 1212. But the court made absolutely clear that it was rejecting that proposed diminution of the importance of reserved control: "Both steps of that argument fail." Id.
      The D.C. Circuit is no outlier among the courts of appeals in holding that reserved control is probative of employer status and cannot be ignored. To the contrary, the Supreme Court and other courts of appeals agree that, under the common law, they must consider not only

evidence of the actual exercise of control but also evidence of a right to control. See, e.g., Nat'l Mutual Ins. Co. v. Darden, 503 U.S. 318, 323 (1992) ("In determining whether a hired party is an employee under the general common law of agency, we consider the hiring party's right to control the manner and means by which the product is accomplished" (cleaned up; emphasis added); NLRB v. Maine Caterers, Inc., 654 F.2d 131, 132 (1st Cir. 1981) (Breyer, J.) (enforcing Board order where "the Board, in applying the common law test of independence, has looked to the right of control: whether the putative employer has the right to control not only the results sought but also the means by which those results are achieved" (cleaned up; emphasis added)), cert. denied, 455 U.S. 940 (1982); Salamon v. Our Lady of Victory Hosp., 514 F.3d 217, 228 (2d Cir. 2008) ("The most important factor in determining the existence of an employment relationship [at common law] is . . . control or right of control by the employer" (cleaned up; emphasis added)); Allbritton Commc'ns Co. v. NLRB, 766 F.2d 812, 819 (3d Cir. 1985) (finding fact that the user employer "retained the right to require [supplier employer] to hire additional employees, and also retained the right to demand that [supplier] discharge any driver, supervisor or assistant foreman who did not meet the [user's] approval" as supportive of Board's joint employer finding); ARA Leisure Servs., Inc. v. NLRB, 782 F.2d 456, 459-60 (4th Cir. 1986) (explaining that it is "the right to control, rather than the actual exercise of control, that is significant" in determining whether a worker is an employee or independent contractor under common law agency principles); N. Am. Soccer League v. NLRB, 613 F.2d 1379, 1382 (5th Cir. 1980) ("The existence of a joint employer relationship depends on the control which one employer exercises, or potentially exercises, over the labor relations policy of the other."); Carrier Corp. v. NLRB, 768 F.2d 778, 781 (6th Cir. 1985) (citing, among factors that particularly support[ed]" a joint employer finding, the fact that the employee leasing agreement gave the user

employer "authority to reject any driver that did not meet its standards and [to] direct [the supplier employer] to remove any driver whose conduct was not in [the user employer's] best
interests"); Alexander v. FedEx Ground Package Sys., Inc., 765 F.3d 981, 988-89 (9th Cir. 2014) (noting that determinations of employment status under California law are governed by a "right- to-control test," which requires courts to weigh a number of factors to determine "whether the person to whom service is rendered has the right to control the manner and means of
accomplishing the result desired"); Slayman v. FedEx Ground Package Sys., Inc.,765 F.3d 1033, 1042 (9th Cir. 2014) ("What matters is what the contract, in actual effect, allows or requires."); Schmidt v. Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 605 F.3d 686, 691 (9th Cir. 2014) ("While we agree the evidence [the putative employer] exercised actual day-to-day control is scant, the district court did not consider whether [putative employer] had the right to control [plaintiff's] daily work. On this point, we conclude [plaintiff] presented adequate evidence for a rational jury to find [putative employer] could control critical aspects of his daily work."); Garcia-Celestino
v. Ruiz Harvesting, Inc., 898 F.3d 1110, 1121 (11th Cir. 2018) (emphasizing that under the common law, "it is the right to control, not the actual exercise of control, that is significant" (emphasis in original), quoting NLRB v. Associated Diamond Cabs, Inc., 702 F.2d 912, 920 (11th Cir. 1983)). Thus, the common law mandates consideration of a putative joint employer's right to control.
      Third, just as with reserved control, the common law of agency requires that the Board consider all evidence of indirect control over terms and conditions of employment in determining joint-employer status, and not ignore indicia of indirect control that do not supplement or reinforce evidence of direct and immediate control and effectively ignore evidence of indirect control even if it does so. In Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, the D.C. Circuit held that "the common-

law inquiry is not woodenly confined to indicia of direct and immediate control; an employer's indirect control over employees can be a relevant consideration." 911 F.3d at 1209. Indeed, "[t]raditional common-law principles of agency do not require that control be exercised directly and immediately to be relevant to the joint-employer inquiry." Id. at 1216 (cleaned up). As the
court pointed out, the Act "itself expressly recognizes that agents acting 'indirectly' on behalf of an employer could also count as employers." Id., quoting 29 U.S.C. § 152(2) ("employer"
"includes any person acting as an agent of an employer, directly or indirectly"). "The Act thus textually indicates that the statute looks to all probative indicia of employer status, whether exercised directly or indirectly." Id. (cleaned up; emphasis added). The court put a final nail in the coffin of any argument that direct control can be treated differently from indirect control when it said a "rigid distinction between direct and indirect control has no anchor in the common law." Id.; see also id. at 1216-17 ("common-law decisions have repeatedly recognized that indirect control over matters commonly determined by an employer can, at a minimum, be weighted in determining one's status as an employer or joint employer, especially insofar as
indirect control means control exercised through an intermediary" (cleaned up)).

      The D.C. Circuit is not alone in finding indirect control relevant to joint employment; other courts of appeals and lower courts have considered different forms of indirect control in determining whether a joint employer relationship existed. In NLRB v. Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc., for example, the Third Circuit considered it relevant that "BFI established the work hours of the drivers, determining when the two shifts it established would start and end," even though the drivers' brokers "schedule[d] the drivers for particular shifts." 691 F.2d 1117, 1120, 1124-25 (3d Cir. 1982); see also Indus. Personnel Corp. v. NLRB, 657 F.2d 226, 229 (8th Cir. 1981) ("While [supplier of drivers] sets the drivers' wages, [user-manufacturer] reimburses

[supplier] and presumably has some control over those wages since it can rescind the . . . contract on thirty days' notice."). In International Union v. Clark, the district court found it relevant that the user employer could "alter the daily assignments of [employees], requiring the contractors to shift personnel from one duty station to another or assign them special projects," even though
"[t]he contractors . . . decide[d] which individual [employee] w[ould], for example, perform overtime or shift duty stations." Civil Action No. 02-1484, 2006 WL 2598046 *7 & n.10 (D.D.C. 2006) (emphasis in original). The Restatement confirms that the control may be "very attenuated." Restatement (Second) of Agency § 220 cmt. d. Accordingly, the Board must fully consider indirect control under common-law principles of agency, and not subordinate it to direct and immediate control much less make it irrelevant as a practical matter.
      As the D.C. Circuit explained, "the common law [does] not countenance ignoring reserved and indirect control in assessing joint-employer status[,]" and ignoring such control does not "color within the common-law lines identified by the judiciary." Sanitary Truck Drivers, 45 F.4th at 46-47 (cleaned up). Because the Board's current joint-employer rule expressly ignores many forms of reserved and indirect control, and effectively ignores the remainder, it fails under the common law. The Board must rescind it.
C. The Board's Current Joint-Employer Rule is Not Justified by the Policies of the Act, and Indeed, it Undermines those Policies

      In the preamble to its 2020 Rule, the Board asserted that its relegation of reserved and indirect control, and control over non-essential mandatory subjects of bargaining, furthers the policies of the Act. But the Board did so in wholly conclusory fashion. For instance, it claimed that the 2020 Rule "promotes national labor policy by appropriately imposing bargaining obligations solely on entities that have actually exercised substantial direct and immediate control over essential terms and conditions of employment." 83 Fed. Reg. 11192. But the Board

provides no explanation as to why requiring bargaining solely of those entities that have actually exercised substantial direct and immediate control over essential terms furthers national labor policy. Indeed, it is difficult to comprehend how a rule that limits the ability of employees to bargain with the employers that possess or exercise control over mandatory subjects could possibly promote the policies of the Act. It is equally difficult to understand how a rule that categorically imposes no duty to bargain on an entity that has authority to control essential terms of employment until that entity actually exercises control could possibly promote the policies of an Act-policies intended to promote bargaining and prevent unilateral changes.
      Similarly, the Board claimed that the rule furthers the policies of the Act "by requiring only those entities to come to the bargaining table that have sufficient control over essential terms and conditions of employment to warrant a finding that they meaningfully affect matters relating to the employment relationship, and that direct and immediate control over at least one essential term is necessary to warrant such a finding." Id. But again, the Board offers no explanation of why direct and immediate control is the only control that warrants a finding that a putative joint employer meaningfully affects matters related to the employment relationship. It is not difficult to imagine circumstances where reserved control and indirect control-especially where exercised through an intermediary-would meaningfully affect matters related to the employment relationship. Accordingly, the Board fails to justify its sui generis framework of superior and subordinate forms of common-law control based on the policies underlying the Act.
      In reality, the Board's current joint-employer rule frustrates-rather than effectuates-the policies of the Act. The Act itself declares that the policy of the United States is to "encourag[e] the practice and procedure of collective bargaining and [to] protect[] the exercise of workers of full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own

choosing, for the purpose of negotiating terms and conditions of their employment[.]" 29 U.S.C.

§ 151. The Supreme Court explained that the "theory of the [A]ct is that free opportunity for negotiation with accredited representatives of employees is likely to promote industrial peace and may bring about the adjustment and agreements which the [A]ct in itself does not attempt to compel." NLRB & Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U.S. 1, 45 (1937). By purposely narrowing the circumstances in which the Board will find joint employment, the current joint- employer rule artificially limits the Act's reach and denies employees the "free opportunity for negotiation" with the entities that possess and/or exercise control over their terms of employment. A rule at odds with the statutory policy cannot stand. See Community of Creative Non-Violence v. Reid, 490 U.S. 730, 750 (1989) (rejecting proposed actual control test for employee status because it would frustrate Congress's goal in copyright law).
D. The Current Joint-Employer Rule's Framework Requires the Board and the Regulated Community to Categorize a Putative Joint Employer's Various Forms of Control, But the Rule Offers No Guidance How to Do So

      Unlike the NPRM's proposed joint-employer rule, which requires the Board to weigh all indicia of control-regardless of form-over terms and conditions of employment, the Board's 2020 Rule requires a strict taxonomy of direct and immediate, reserved, and indirect control in order to determine which forms of control will be considered, and to what extent, in any given factual scenario. Into what categorical bucket-direct and immediate, reserved, indirect- specific evidence of control is placed determines whether that evidence of control will be considered at all or ignored in its entirety. But many specific forms of control defy easy categorization. For instance, is a contractual provision that sets the start and end times for supplied workers' shifts, with a right-as yet, unexercised-for the user employer to change those times at will even during a shift, a form of reserved but unexercised control, direct and

immediate control, or both? If a user employer recommends the discharge of a supplied employee for alleged misconduct, and the supplier does discharge the employee without conducting its own investigation, is that evidence of indirect control or direct and immediate control? What type of control is pervasive electronic monitoring by a user employer that dictates the speed at which supplied employees work? Classifying these indicia of control as direct and immediate may lead to a finding of joint employment; classifying them as reserved or indirect control may lead to them being entirely disregarded.
      The regulated community is left to struggle with this sorting task without any guidance from the Board. Indeed, the Board itself has been inconsistent in how it categorizes certain forms of control. For instance, in BFI, the Board categorized control exercised through an intermediary as indirect control. 362 NLRB at 1600. But in the preamble to the 2020 Rule, the Board suggested control exercised through an intermediary is direct and immediate control. See 83 Fed. Reg. 11209 ("Direct and immediate control exercised through an intermediary remains direct and immediate."). Accordingly, a confused public has no compass to guide its analysis of whether various forms of control in the modern workplace are direct and immediate, reserved, or indirect.
The Board should end this confusion by rescinding the current rule.

II. Instead of Revising the Joint-Employer Rule, the Board Should Return to Developing the Joint-Employer Standard through Adjudication

      While the AFL-CIO strongly supports the Board's proposal to rescind the 2020 Rule, we urge the Board to not revise its joint-employer standard further in rulemaking. Instead, the AFL- CIO urges that the Board return to the practice of addressing joint-employer status through adjudication.

      As this Board recognized, "[f]or nearly the entirety of the Act's history, the Board has developed its joint-employer jurisprudence through case-by-case adjudication." 87 Fed. Reg. 54644. The Board's 2020 Rule was a "significant departure" from that practice. Id. But "adjudication possesses a number of benefits when determining joint-employer status." Id.
Perhaps the most important of these benefits is the guidance provided by application of the standard to specific facts. The Board has repeatedly recognized that the joint-employer inquiry is highly fact-specific. See id.; 85 Fed. Reg. 11224 ("Joint-employer determinations have always been fact-intensive, and they will continue to be so."); BFI, 362 NLRB at 1614 (noting that issues related to determining joint-employer status "are best examined and resolved in the context of specific factual circumstances"). Accordingly, joint-employer guidance in the abstract may not provide the type of guidance to the public that application to specific facts would.
      Moreover, as the Board will likely be confronted by various factual scenarios in joint- employer adjudications, particularly as new technologies enable new forms of control to be exercised, the Board may find it necessary to adjust aspects of its joint-employer test generally or within a specific adjudication in the future. If the Board proceeds with rulemaking, it could only make those adjustments in subsequent rulemakings, which would apply prospectively and not to the cases that raised the need for adjustments. By just rescinding the 2020 Rule and returning to addressing the joint-employer standard through adjudication, the Board would be more nimble in its ability to address varying factual situations and future workplace developments.
      The Board currently has the opportunity to further articulate its joint-employer standard through adjudication with the D.C. Circuit's recent remand of BFI. Sanitary Truck Drivers, 45 F.4th at 48. Thus, in rescinding the 2020 Rule, the Board should make clear that the rule's repeal renders its displacement of the BFI standard of no force or effect. See Hy-Brand, 366 NLRB No.

26, sl. op. 1 (2018) (holding that vacatur of decision rendered its overruling of BFI "of no force or effect"). Following repeal of the 2020 rule, the Board may address relevant aspects of its joint-employer standard in BFI on remand, including the refinement of the indirect control element that the D.C. Circuit sought through its initial remand. Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1221. The AFL-CIO believes this course of action would provide more valuable guidance to the public than issuing a revised joint-employer rule.
      Alternatively, the AFL-CIO suggests that the Board revise its joint-employer rule as follows:
§ 103.40	Common Law of Agency.

An employer, as defined by section 2(2) of the National Labor Relations Act (the Act), is an employer-either solely or jointly-of particular employees, as defined by section 2(3) of the Act, if the employer has an employment relationship with those employees under common-law agency principles.

This straightforward revision would accomplish the Board's goal of ensuring that its joint- employer standard remains consistent with the common law. 87 Fed. Reg. 54645. At the same time, this short revision would allow the Board to further develop its joint-employer standard through adjudication, while guided by the revised 29 C.F.R. § 103.40. Again, as suggested above, the Board should make clear that, under this revision, the 2020 Rule's displacement of the BFI standard is of no force or effect, and that the Board will return to further addressing its joint- employer analysis through adjudication.
      While the AFL-CIO urges the Board to simply rescind the 2020 Rule, and return to addressing its joint-employer standard through adjudication, or alternatively, to adopt a short revised 29 C.F.R. § 103.40, the remainder of these comments will address the balance of the

Board's NPRM, in the event the Board resolves to move forward with a more extensive revision of its current rule.2
III. The NPRM's Subsection (a) is Fully Consistent with Supreme Court Precedent and Congressional Intent

      The AFL-CIO supports adoption of the Board's proposed revised subsection (a). There is no remaining debate that the Board's employer analysis is governed by common-law principles. The Supreme Court has said so. See, e.g., United Ins. Co., 390 U.S. at 256 ("no doubt that [the Court] should apply the common law agency test [] in distinguishing an employee from an independent contractor"). Indeed, the Court has explained that where Congress-as with the NLRA-uses the term "employee" in a statute without meaningfully defining it, the Court presumes that "Congress intended to describe the conventional master-servant relationship as understood by common-law agency doctrine." NLRB v. Town & Country Elec., Inc., 516 U.S.
85, 93-94 (1995) (cleaned up).

      As discussed above, the D.C. Circuit has specifically held that the common law of agency governs the Board's joint-employer analysis. See Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1206 ("the National Labor Relations Act's test for joint-employer status is determined by the common law of agency"); Sanitary Truck Drivers, 45 F.4th at 47 (court has "made clear that the Board's joint-employer test must 'color within the common-law lines identified by the judiciary'").
Accordingly, it is well-settled that the Board's employer test-whether determining sole or joint employers-must comply with common-law principles. A provision that clarifies that the Board's rule is grounded in common-law principles is then entirely appropriate.



2 As discussed supra, if the Board does determine that it will issue a revised rule, whether short or detailed, the Board should make clear that its decision to rescind the 2020 Rule is separate and severable from its decision to issue the revised rule.

IV. The NPRM's Proposed Subsection (b) Properly Restores the Board's Joint- Employer Standard to its Long-Standing Core

      The AFL-CIO supports adoption of the Board's proposed subsection (b), which would restore the joint-employer standard to its long-standing core: "two or more employers of the same particular employees are joint employers of those employees if the employers share or codetermine those matters governing employees' essential terms and conditions of employment." The Board has used the formulation of "share or codetermine those matters governing [] essential terms and conditions of employment" since at least its decision in Greyhound Corp., 153 NLRB 1488, 1495 (1965). It was later adopted in the Third Circuit's seminal decision in NLRB v.
Browning-Ferris Industries of Pa., 691 F.2d 1117, 1124 (3d Cir. 1982). The Board formally followed the Third Circuit and adopted the formulation in Laerco Transportation, 269 NLRB 324, 325 (1984). See also TLI, Inc., 271 NLRB 798, 798 (1984). The Board re-affirmed its commitment to the proposed formulation in BFI. 362 NLRB at 1600.
      Yet in the 2020 Rule, the Board-without discussion or explanation-adopted an altered standard: "an employer ... may be considered a joint employer of a separate employer's
employees only if the two employees share or codetermine the employees' essential terms and conditions of employment." 29 C.F.R. § 130.40(a). This standard cut the words "those matters governing." While the Board did not explain the alteration of its long-standing standard, it is clear that the Board adopted the revised standard in aid of the 2020 Rule's improper focus on direct and immediate control. The Board seemed to understand-correctly-that, by focusing on control over "those matters governing essential terms and conditions of employment," the analysis factored in more than just direct and immediate control over essential terms and conditions. Those matters that govern essential terms would include reserved control and indirect control that affect terms and conditions. Accordingly, the Board now properly proposes

to restore the joint-employer standard to its long-standing formulation, which reflects the NPRM's recognition that the common law of agency considers reserved and indirect control along with direct and immediate control.
      The AFL-CIO proposes minor edits to the NPRM's proposed subsection (b). We propose the following: "two or more persons or entities are joint employers of the same particular employees if the persons or entities share or codetermine those matters governing employees' essential terms and conditions of employment." We offer these minor edits for clarity only, and not for any substantive purpose.
V. The NPRM's Subsection (c) Properly Identifies the Relevant Forms of Control under the Common Law of Agency

      The AFL-CIO supports adoption of the NPRM's proposed subsection (c), with a small change discussed below. Under the proposed subsection, the Board will find that an employer shares or codetermines those matters governing the terms and conditions of employment of a set of employees if the employer "possess[es] the authority to control (whether directly, indirectly, or both), or [] exercise[s] the power to control (whether directly, indirectly, or both), one or more of the employees' essential terms and conditions of employment." 87 Fed. Reg. 54663. The proposed subsection explicitly requires the Board to weigh all forms of control relevant under the common law when determining whether an entity is a joint employer. That proposal returns to the test articulated in BFI, the core components of which were upheld by the D.C. Circuit.
Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1209; Sanitary Truck Drivers, 45 F.4th at 47 (explaining that the court in Browning-Ferris v. NLRB upheld the "core components" of the BFI test, and remanded only as to application of the indirect control element to the facts of that case).
      The Board in BFI similarly defined the terms "share or codetermine those matters governing employees' essential terms and conditions of employment" as requiring a common-

law employment relationship between a putative joint employer and a set of employees. 362 NLRB at 1600. The Board explained that whether a common-law employment relationship exists between a putative joint employer and a set of employees turns on "the existence, extent, and object of the putative joint employer's control[,]" and that the Board would "examine how
control is manifested in a particular employment relationship." Id. As such, the Board held that "[r]eserved authority to control terms and conditions of employment, even if not exercised, is clearly relevant to the joint-employer inquiry." Id. The Board further held that it would no
longer require that the putative joint employer's control "be exercised directly and immediately" "to be relevant the joint-employer inquiry," but, instead, the Board would recognize that indirect control was also relevant to the inquiry. Id. Accordingly, BFI's test for determining whether putative joint employers "share or codetermine those matter governing employee's essential
terms and conditions of employment" required examination of all forms of control relevant under the common law.
      On review, the D.C. Circuit agreed that the Board's inquiry is governed by the common law of agency. Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1207-09. It then squarely addressed whether reserved and indirect control are cognizable under the common law. Id. at 1209 ("The question in this case is whether the common-law analysis of joint-employer status can factor in both (i) an employer's authorized but unexercised forms of control, and (ii) an employer's
indirect control over employees' terms and conditions of employment."). The court extensively canvassed Supreme Court, its own, and other federal courts' precedent, as well as other court decisions and the Restatement (Second) of Agency, to "conclude that the Board's right-to- control standard is an established aspect of the common law of agency" and that "an employer's indirect control over employees can be a relevant consideration." Id. The court reiterated this

position in Sanitary Truck Drivers. 45 F.4th at 47 (explaining that, in Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, court "held that the common law would not countenance ignoring reserved and indirect control in assessing joint-employer status") and id. (describing the Board's pre-BFI standard as "out of step with the common law").
      There is then ample support for the NPRM's proposed subsection (c). Indeed, a rule- such as the 2020 Rule-that failed to account for all forms of control relevant under the common law is inconsistent with Browning-Ferris v. NLRB and Sanitary Truck Drivers.
      While the AFL-CIO largely supports adoption of proposed subsection (c), we urge the Board to delete its references to direct and indirect control within the proposed provision. See, e.g., 87 Fed. Reg. 54663 ("(whether directly, indirectly, or both)"). Unlike the 2020 Rule, the NPRM does not require any distinction between different forms of common-law control. The rule proposed by the NPRM will consider all forms of control relevant under the common law; indeed, the first sentence of the NPRM's subsection (e) explicitly says so. Accordingly, there is
no need for the Board to specify in the rule itself that both direct and indirect control are relevant to the inquiry. Inclusion of the terms direct and indirect control may create confusion as to a need to categorize the forms of exercised control, or give undue credence to arguments that the two forms of exercised control are different and should be treated differently under the common law. In place of including the terms in the rule itself, the Board should simply clarify in the preamble to its final rule that all forms of control relevant under the common law-whether direct, indirect, or reserved-are relevant pursuant to subsection (c).
VI. The NPRM's Subsection (d) Should be Revised so that the Essential Terms and Conditions are those Statutory Terms to Which the Bargaining Obligation Extends-Wages, Hours, and Other Terms and Conditions of Employment

      The AFL-CIO agrees with the NPRM's proposal to define "essential terms" broadly and inclusively. 87 Fed. Reg. 54646. Such an approach would be consistent with the Board's historical practice. See TLI, Inc., 271 NLRB 798, 798 (1984) (describing essential terms as
"matters relating to the employment relationship such as hiring, firing, discipline, supervision, and direction" (emphasis added)); Aldworth Co., Inc., 338 NLRB 137, 139 (2002) ("The relevant facts involved in this determination extend to nearly every aspect of employees' terms and conditions of employment and must be given weight commensurate with their significance to
employees' work life."), enfd. sub. nom. Dunkin' Donuts Mid-Atlantic Distribution Center v. NLRB, 363 F.3d 437 (D.C. Cir. 2004); BFI, 362 NLRB at 1613 ("We adhere to the Board's inclusive approach in defining 'essential terms and conditions of employment'"). And the 2020 Rule's exhaustive list of essential terms was certainly ill-conceived, as illustrated in the NPRM by the fact that health and safety was not on the exhaustive list. 87 Fed. Reg. 54647. Limiting the essential terms to an exhaustive list is also in conflict with Supreme Court guidance on applying the common law. See United Ins. Co, 390 U.S. at 258 ("there is no shorthand formula or magic phrase that can be applied to find the answer, ... the total factual context is assessed in light of the pertinent common-law agency principles"). For those reasons, we fully support defining essential terms broadly and inclusively.
      That said, the NPRM's attempt to list "benchmark[]"-though non-exhaustive-essential terms should be revised. 87 Fed. Reg. 54647. The proposed subsection (d) should list only the terms in the statute that are subject to the duty to bargain: "wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment." 29 U.S.C. § 158(d). The AFL-CIO's revised proposed subsection
(c) would read:

"Essential terms and conditions of employment" will generally mean only those wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment that are subject to the statutory duty to bargain under section 8(d) of the Act.

      Listing specific terms that go beyond those found in § 8(d) risks emphasizing certain terms and condition of employment over others, which may not be appropriate in all factual scenarios. As the Board recognized in Aldworth Co., its task is to consider all elements of control over terms and conditions of employment, and give them weight as required in the relevant factual setting. 338 NLRB at 139; cf. First Nat'l Maintenance Corp. v. NLRB, 452 U.S. 666, 675 (1981) ("Congress deliberately left the words 'wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment' without further definition, for it did not intend to deprive the Board of the power further to define those terms in light of specific industrial practices.").
      Additionally, even if the list is non-exhaustive, decision-makers will look to the benchmark terms and conditions to parse whether certain employment terms and conditions are essential or not. These decision-makers may then ignore relevant forms of control that are not similar to those in the list.
      Accordingly, the AFL-CIO urges the Board to adopt the statutory terms to which the duty to bargain extends - "wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment" - in place of the listed essential terms and conditions. The statutory terms signal that the decision-maker should broadly examine all facets of the employment relationship relevant to the work performed, under what conditions, and upon what terms. Additionally, the AFL-CIO's proposal may prevent a decision-maker from ignoring control over a term or condition of employment that may not have a clear common law analogue; such as a grievance procedure.
      While advocating for the Board to define essential terms broadly, we recognize that control over any term or condition of employment as the Board has defined that phrase for

purposes of an acknowledged employer's duty to bargain may not in all cases establish an employment relationship under common-law principles of agency, as required by the NPRM's subsection (a). The word "generally" in the AFL-CIO's proposed subsection (d) will permit the Board to properly address what we believe will be extremely rare, if not wholly hypothetical, cases of this sort. For instance, an entity whose control extends only to cafeteria prices, see Ford Motor Co., 441 U.S. 488, 498 (1979), may control a term of employment to which a bargaining duty attaches, but would not be a common-law employer. In the highly unlikely event that a union files a petition seeking to bargain with such an entity, the Board would have to consider the entity's control over that term of employment-and any other terms and conditions of employment-and give that control such weight as required by the factual setting to determine whether the control makes the entity an employer. If control over that one mandatory subject of bargaining is not sufficient to make the entity a common-law employer, then that entity does not control any essential terms and conditions of employment.
      The Board has experience with this type of analysis. For instance, in Management Training Corp., where the Board held that it would exercise jurisdiction over an entity that it found to be an employer under Section 2(2) regardless of whether an exempt entity also controlled some of the terms and conditions of employment of the subject employees, the Board explained that "[t]he [e]mployer in question must ... control some matters relating to the employment relationship, or else it would not be an employer under the Act." 317 NLRB at 1358. Applying this test, the Board in Recana Solutions held that an employment agency
"maintain[ed] sufficient control to qualify as a statutory employer" because the supplied day laborers submitted job applications to the employment agency, the agency selected potential employees and transported them to the work sites, and the agency set the laborers' wages, even

though the user City employer selected the actual employees and supervised them in their day-to- day employment. 349 NLRB 1163, 1165 (2007); see also Teledyne Economic Development v.
NLRB, 108 F.3d 56, 58 (4th Cir. 1997) (finding entity in question was statutory employer because it "possesse[d] the authority to hire, fire, direct, and discipline its employees in accordance with its formulated policies"). The Board engages in a similar analysis when a union's charge or representation petition names only one of two joint employers. See, e.g., Dynawash, 362 NLRB 427, 427 (2015) ("the record establishes that the Respondent was an employer of [discriminatee] because it exercised sufficient control over his terms and conditions of employment" (emphasis in original)); Interstate Warehousing of Oh., LLC, 333 NLRB 682, 688 (2001) (finding employer named in petition was a statutory employer because, among other things, it "supervise[d], direct[ed] and discipline[d] the temporary employees assigned to [its] facility"). Accordingly, the Board is familiar with determining whether the control retained or exercised by an entity is over terms and conditions that render it an employer under the Act.
There is then no concern that defining the essential terms as wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment will result in finding an entity a joint employer even if it is not a common-law employer.
VII. The NPRM's Subsection (e) may Cause Confusion and Should Be Revised

      The AFL-CIO believes that the NPRM's proposed subsection (e) would benefit from revision. We fully support the adoption of the first sentence in the proposed provision, which indicates that whether a putative employer possesses or exercises control will be determined under common-law agency principles. 87 Fed. Reg. 54663 ("Whether an employer possesses the authority to control or exercise the power to control one or more of the employees' terms and

conditions of employment is determined under common-law agency principles."). However, the remainder of the proposed provision may cause confusion that warrants a revision.
The remainder of the NPRM's subsection (e) reads:

Possessing the authority to control is sufficient to establish status as a joint employer. Exercising the power to control indirectly is sufficient to establish status as a joint employer, regardless of whether the power is exercised directly. Control exercised through an intermediary person or entity is sufficient to establish status as a joint employer.

87 Fed. Reg. 54663. This language may cause confusion for two reasons. First, as with the proposed subsection (c), this language suggests there is a meaningful distinction between the forms of control relevant under the common law, and the Board should refrain from using such labels in the rule itself. The confusion is highlighted by the fact that the proposal has a sentence addressing indirect control, and a separate sentence addressing control exercised through an intermediary, even though the preamble says control exercised through an intermediary is indirect control. See, e.g., 87 Fed. Reg. 54650. Second, the language may be read to suggest that any evidence of the possession of authority to control over any term of employment, or evidence of the exercise of power to control indirectly any term of employment, will always be determinative of joint-employer status. That reading would be at odds with the Supreme Court's guidance that, under the common law, "there is no shorthand formula or magic phrase ... [and] all of the incidents of the relationship must be assessed and weighed with no one factor being decisive." United Ins. Co., 390 U.S. at 258.
      In order to avoid confusion, the AFL-CIO urges the Board to maintain the first sentence of the proposed subsection (e), and then delete the remainder of proposed subsection (e). This would ensure that the determination of whether a person or entity possesses and exercises

control-whether directly or indirectly-will be governed by common-law agency principles, while avoiding any of the potential confusion described above.
      Alternatively, the AFL-CIO proposes that, at a minimum, the Board revise the proposed subsection by replacing the phrase "is sufficient" in the second, third, and fourth sentences with "may be sufficient."
VIII. The NPRM's Subsection (f) Should be Revised to More Clearly Delineate What Evidence is Irrelevant to the Common-Law Analysis

      The AFL-CIO agrees with the concept underlying the NPRM's proposed subsection (f); that is, a provision within the rule that provides guidance as to evaluating what indicia of control are irrelevant under the common law of agency. In discussing the Board's application of the indirect control factor, the D.C. Circuit in Browning-Ferris v. NLRB faulted the Board for failing, in that case, to "hew to the relevant common-law boundaries that prevent the Board from trenching on the common and routine decisions that employers make when hiring third-party contractors and defining the terms of those contracts." 911 F.3d at 1219. The court explained
that the Board's indirect control factor "requires it to erect some legal scaffolding that keeps the inquiry within traditional common-law bounds[.]" Id. at 1220. Accordingly, providing guidance to ensure the Board's inquiry remains within the common-law bounds is sensible.
      The Board's proposed language does provide the needed guidance; however, it could offer more clarity as to the forms of control that fall outside the bounds of the common law of agency. Accordingly, the AFL-CIO proposes the following revised wording:
Entrepreneurial control that either relates to the scope and contours of the contracted-for services-such as setting the objectives, basic ground rules, or expectations for, or providing for coordination or cooperation with, a third-party contractor-or that does not bear on the employees' essential terms and conditions of employment is not relevant to the determination of whether the employer is a joint employer.

      Entrepreneurial control is a concept familiar to the Board, and relates to management decisions that are not mandatory subject of bargaining because they "concern[] the commitment of capital and the basic scope of the enterprise." Fibreboard Paper Prods. Corp. v. NLRB, 379
U.S. 203, 223 (1964) (Stewart, J., concurring). The Board has similarly described the concept of entrepreneurial control as "certain managerial decisions that amount to a 'change in the scope and direction of the enterprise[.]'" Mi Pueblo Foods, 360 NLRB 1097, 1098 (2014), quoting First Nat'l Maintenance Corp., 452 U.S. at 677. In Ford Motor Co. v. NLRB, the Supreme Court distinguished entrepreneurial control from decisions that are "germane to the working environment[,]" which are mandatory subjects of bargaining. 441 U.S. 488, 498 (1979) (cleaned up). Entrepreneurial control then refers to control incident to decisions regarding the scope and direction of the business, or that are "fundamental to the basic direction of the enterprise." Resthaven Corp., 322 NLRB 750, 751 (1996), quoting Medicenter, Mid-South Hospital, 221 NLRB 670, 676 (1975). Examples include decisions over whether to continue providing services to a particular client, even where the decision to terminate the contract results in layoffs, First Nat'l Maintenance, 452 U.S. at 677, 686; decisions to go out of business altogether, Fibreboard Paper Prods., 379 U.S. at 223; and the decision to sell a company-owned dealership, General Motors Corp., 191 NLRB 951, 952 (1971).
      Accordingly, entrepreneurial control as used in the AFL-CIO's proposed language references control incident to decisions that concern the basic scope and contours of the contracted service. In contrast, entrepreneurial control is not control over matters that are germane to wages, hours and working conditions. As such, contracting with a labor supply company to provide sorters to sort recyclables along four material streams in the service purchaser's facility, providing precise performance specifications, and setting temporal deadlines

are examples of entrepreneurial control, as the control relates to the scope of the contracted-for services. See Browning-Ferris v. NLRB, 911 F.3d at 1221. But control over the speed at which the material streams operate; the specific number of laborers to be assigned to each material stream, including the exercise of authority to direct the labor supply company to reduce the number of sorters on specific lines; what positions the sorters will occupy on the streams; whether a right-handed or left-handed sorter is preferred at specific positions; and the instruction to the sorters to work faster or to remove more of a specific material from the stream are all examples of control over matters germane to wages, hours and working conditions, and would then be evidence of relevant common-law control. See BFI, 362 NLRB at 1602-03, 1617.
Similarly, a retail entity that simply contracts for the delivery of goods-and even for the stocking of the delivered goods on shelves-would be exercising entrepreneurial control, as the control relates to the scope of contracted-for services, akin to contracting for sorters to sort recyclables on a material stream. Other examples would include contracting to provide services at times most convenient to the employer receiving the services or requiring outside contractors to park in certain locations, enter buildings through certain entrances, and sign in at security gates. All of these are examples of the basic contours of the contracted-services, and relate to coordinating the provision of those services. However, if the business receiving the services reserves or exercises control over the work performed by the servicing contractor's employees or their terms and conditions of employment, that would be relevant common-law control.
      The AFL-CIO believes this revision to the proposed subsection (f) would provide clearer guidance of the type of control that is not relevant under the common law.
X. The NPRM's Subsection (h) is Appropriate, but the Board Should Further Make Clear that Its Rescission Decision is Severable from its Proposed Revisions

The AFL-CIO supports adoption of the severability clause in proposed subsection (h).

Such a clause is appropriate, as each provision of the proposed rule can stand on its own. However, the Board should explicitly state that its decision to rescind the 2020 Rule is separate and also severable from its proposed revisions to 29 C.F.R. § 103.40. This would make clear that the decision to rescind the 2020 Rule is an independent action of the Board that would also stand on its own, regardless of the decision to revise the rule.
XI. Conclusion

      The Board should rescind its 2020 Rule for the reasons stated above. The Board should then return to addressing its joint-employer standard in adjudication instead of revising its rule in this rulemaking proceeding, or alternatively, the Board should limit its revision to the abbreviated provision suggested in these comments. If the Board decides to move forward with a full revision of the joint-employer rule, the Board should adopt its proposed rule with the suggested changes described in these comments.
Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Craig Becker Craig Becker Maneesh Sharma
815 Black Lives Matter Plz. Washington, D.C. 20006
(202) 637-5310
cbecker@aflcio.org Counsel for the AFL-CIO




