


Brian Walsh
Director, Labor and Employment Policy
Infrastructure, Innovation and Human Resources Policy


December 7, 2022


Roxanne L. Rothschild Executive Secretary
National Labor Relations Board 1015 Half Street SE Washington, DC 20570-0001

RE: NLRB-2022-22690; RIN 3142-AA21 Comments on "Standard for Determining Joint Employer Status"

Dear Ms. Rothschild:

       On behalf of the 14,000 members of the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), the NAM submits these comments in response to the National Labor Relations Board's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on its Standard for Determining Joint Employer Status.

       The NAM is the largest manufacturing association in the United States representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Manufacturing employs 12.9 million men and women, contributes more than $2 trillion to the U.S. economy annually, has the largest economic impact of any major sector, and accounts for nearly 62% of private-sector research and development.1 The NAM is the powerful voice of the manufacturing community and the leading advocate for a policy agenda that helps manufacturers compete in the global economy and create jobs across the United States.

       Manufacturers adeptly navigated the shifting circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to respond to a range of ongoing supply chain, inflationary and workforce challenges. The operating environment for the manufacturing sector has been stretched to its limits. Manufacturers continue to face a workforce crisis, with 76.1% of respondents to the most recent NAM Manufacturers' Outlook Survey indicating that they continue struggling to attract and retain sufficient talent.2 The workforce challenge is expected to worsen in the coming years, with a study by Deloitte and The Manufacturing Institute (MI) showing that nearly half of the estimated 4.6 million jobs that manufacturers will need to fill over the next decade could go unfilled.3 According to the MI, job openings in manufacturing are highly technical, workers

1  https://www.nam.org/facts-about-manufacturing/
2   https://www.nam.org/2022-3rd-quarter-manufacturers-outlook-survey/
3 https://www.themanufacturinginstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/MI-Deloitte-skills-gap-Future-of- Workforce-study-2018.pdf

Leading Innovation. Creating Opportunity. Pursuing Progress. 733 10th Street, NW • Suite 700 • Washington, DC 20001 • P 202.637.3178 • F 202.637.3182 • www.nam.org


require specialized skills training and credentials to qualify for these jobs, and manufacturers need to attract a diverse set of workers with technical backgrounds.4 Manufacturers continue to advance solutions to close the skills gap and encourage competitiveness, which include: earn- and learn programs; certifications; two and four-year degrees; on-the-job training; upskilling; and second chances. Manufacturers have worked hard to add over 300,000 workers since 2020.5 The NAM and its members support collaborative environments for employers and employees as well as respectful relationships with workers to include all who are working to support a manufacturing enterprise.
       With this manufacturing landscape in mind, the NLRB's proposed changes to its joint employer standard will lead to a dramatic shift in basic business operational practices and procedures that have been guaranteed by legal and regulatory certainty under the current joint employer standard. The NAM believes the NLRB's effort to change employment classifications and other definitions around control are lacking in merit and would lead to significant disruptions in manufacturing operations. Further, it would exacerbate manufacturers' ability to respond to changing market demands, including efforts to address acute workforce needs.
       In 2014, the NAM previously articulated the need for a stable and clear labor relations landscape. Those arguments explained that no circumstance existed that warranted a change to the then-joint employer standard when the Browning-Ferris Industries case came before the NLRB. As noted at the time, the NAM did not believe that the Board was justified in its eventual 2015 decision to overturn decades of legal precedent that supported the definition of joint employer and the then-standard in determining joint employer status. To that end, the NAM supported efforts to appeal Board's Browning-Ferris decision in 2015.6
       The proposed rule purports to codify the Browning-Ferris standard, but in fact goes far beyond what the Board held in that case, and beyond what courts have approved. The NLRB's proposed rule fails to explain the problem of workplace employment classifications or justify the need to provide a new remedy. Nor does the proposed rule acknowledge the current circumstances which employers face with engaging qualified workers, ongoing supply chain challenges and related inflationary pressures. Instead, the proposed rule will only confuse the very foundation of a myriad of employment and other contractual relationships at the expense of manufacturers and workers.
       The NAM's comments focus on how the proposed joint employer regulation will disrupt current employment and other contractual relationships, and will serve to exacerbate ongoing supply challenges in the United States by making staffing in the manufacturing workplace infinitely more complicated for employees and employers alike. In the cases of engaging temporary or contract workers, the rule's focus on an employer's "control" of virtually any aspect of a worker's relationship with their employer or another company is both unreasonable and unworkable.




4 https://www.themanufacturinginstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/MI-Hiring-Engine-Job-Opening- Paper.pdf
5  https://www.nam.org/facts-about-manufacturing/
6 https://documents.nam.org/law/amicusbriefs/2016/BrowningFerris_v_NLRB_DCCir_061416.pdf


       As the NLRB moves forward with this rulemaking, manufacturers are gravely concerned that the new standard will:

* Create more challenges in the engagement of temporary and contingent workers through third-party companies or other contractors; and
* Cause confusion among employers as to who is responsible for the worker if they are deemed to be employed by multiple entities.

       The NAM urges the NLRB to consider all feedback submitted and address the many practical, legal and implementation concerns that stakeholders have identified. To that end, the NAM aligns itself with the comments filed by the Coalition for a Democratic Workplace (CDW). Specifically, the NAM echoes CDW's concern that the agency has failed to justify these proposed changes, and that the proposed rule lacks critical information and necessary definitions around the issues of control which would be required to establish a joint employer relationship under the National Labor Relations Act. Foremost, the broad and sweeping changes in the proposed rule lack legal or factual support. Moreover, as a practical matter, the impacts to the supply chain and the workforce will be dramatic and overly complicated if this rule is implemented as proposed. The NAM is firmly opposed to this proposed rule and the Board's effort to adopt an expanded Browning-Ferris standard that goes beyond past precedent.

Challenges in the engagement of temporary workers:

       Manufacturers are concerned that the new rule will challenge manufacturers' ability to engage temporary workers for jobs that are staffed on an "as needed" basis. As the Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy ("Advocacy") recently noted in its comments to the Board, the proposed standard can target any contractual relationship based on an ill-defined and unlimited list of reasons based around an employer's indirect or reserved control.7 Today, the terms of those employment relationships are determined contractually by both parties. Some employers have work that needs to be done that is cyclical, seasonal or variable in nature, and those who supply labor or respond to employer needs and business opportunities are attuned to those marketplace dynamics.

       As an example, this may be a trucker who temporarily contracts to pick up a manufacturer's goods on a supply route of his or her own design. Alternately, there are instances where labor is brought in to support temporary shutdowns for some sites and exclusively perform maintenance on equipment and facilities. Many manufacturers employ workers to perform IT, security, janitorial or food service support. These workers are engaged for selective projects or services, and they differentiate in the purpose and length of the employment relationship. These workers might have pre-existing skills, their work relies upon relationships with vendors, and their independence is relevant to the role they play at a worksite that would not be appropriately reflected by employment at one single company.

7 https://cdn.advocacy.sba.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/29104056/Comment-Letter-NLRB-Joint-Employer- Rule-508c.pdf?utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery



       When control of "essential terms and conditions of employment" is expanded in the definition of joint employer as the NLRB has proposed to include not only wages, hiring and discipline, but fundamental work relationship parameters such as scheduling, workplace health and safety and compliance with basic workplace rules, the contractual relationships of manufacturers are further complicated. For example, employers need to maintain at least reserved control over a worker's schedule to maintain workable plant shift schedules. Not only does this schedule ensure that employees are relieved appropriately, but it also contributes to a good workplace safety culture. Similarly, joint employer status should not be designated due to a company's compliance with basic requirements in the workplace because federal and state regulatory requirements as well as other workplace policies and procedures are designed to be universally applied to all who enter a facility, regardless of employment status.

       Relatedly, the inclusion of an employer's control over workplace health and safety standards is a perplexing addition to the standard. The inclusion of these controls would make it difficult for employers to provide basic safety training to workers or take action to address health and safety threats as they arise, such as during the COVID-19 pandemic. This definitional expansion would upend the progress in a workplace safety culture that agencies, like OSHA, have promoted and that manufacturers have devoted significant resources to both before and during COVID-19. Control over health and safety guidelines supports a shared belief and responsibility among manufacturers to protect workers and workplaces. In essence, the rule instructs companies to remove worker protection provisions from their supplier contracts or accept joint employer status.

       Lastly, these expanded definitions of control will only further challenge an employer's ability to engage the best available talent through whatever means selected, whether it is a staffing agency or other source of workforce talent. Manufacturers believe strongly in their ability to factor in circumstances such as verifying a temporary worker's fitness for duty, allowing for collaboration between a current employee and a temporary worker and the ability to address performance standards and other workplace guidance with the worker. In each of these situations, a company would be determined to be a joint employer since these would then be considered basic controls in a stable working relationship.

       This proposed rule would also challenge a company's ability to release workers and others on a manufacturing premises who violate workplace rules. For example, a worker that fails to comply with the company's site rules would leave the company no right to discharge, or even discipline, the offending employee under the new rule. Instead, it only has the right to request that the employee not return to the premises, or else risk facing liability as a joint employer.

       The NLRB's proposed inclusion of reserved control, even if never exercised, creates a tenuous and unfair determination of a manufacturer as a potential joint employer of a contractor's employee. This shift ultimately forces manufacturers to add a new operational


burden that goes beyond business-to-business activity to now assuming joint employer liability. Such shifts then would require companies to revise policies, practices and contracts to address that liability. Moreover, these changes of the proposed rule open the door to employers potentially having to manage even more collective bargaining units in their ongoing course of labor management relations, going beyond the traditional scope of employer and employee bargaining units.

       The NAM fully agrees and supports the Advocacy's recommendation that the NLRB must further clarify and set definite limits on what constitutes control and would lead to joint employment status.8 This clarity is currently lacking as manufacturers and their workers require more certainty on the basic terms of engagement.

Responsibility for the worker will become more unclear:

       While the NLRB believes that this rule will stabilize labor relations, the new joint employment concept outlined in this rule will only create more confusion among employers and new tensions with employees as well as labor organizations. Manufacturers classified as joint employers based on any of the controlling factors mentioned above would be at a severe disadvantage when they need workers in the skilled trades (pipefitters, welders, electricians, etc.).

       In some instances, these tradesmen are union members and already engage in multi- employer bargaining with the contractor firm that hired the tradesmen as the primary employer. Under this proposed rule, the employment relationship would become unclear as tradesmen perform services for numerous companies and only spend a fraction of their time with a given company.

       Further, the nature of this work is won through a bidding process where multiple employers seek the services of the tradesmen. The new standard would exponentially complicate this competitive process as each of the host companies would be considered joint employers along with the contracting firms. This new joint employment relationship would disrupt how work is awarded and to whom the work is awarded since tradesmen split their time between many companies. This work is generally awarded to those tradesmen who can meet the company's needs at that moment.

       The confusion caused by this new standard will create novel tension in relationships between employers and workers, along with some of their organized labor counterparts. An employer would enter into a potential conflict with tradesmen that are organized through different unions. Since unionized labor has an automatic "right" to labor at the firm they are employed by, employers would find themselves in a crossfire between competing labor organizations where there was no tension before.


8 Ibid.



       If companies are deemed to be joint employers, it opens them to even more collective bargaining obligations and liability than under historic precedent. The proposed rule offers almost no guidance as to what a joint employer's bargaining obligations might be, and discards even the Browning-Ferris requirement that an employer must have control over essential terms and conditions of employment "so as to permit meaningful bargaining" before it is considered a joint employer. This will in no way foster labor stability or successful collective bargaining, but instead result in innumerable employers facing bargaining obligations of which they may be completely unaware and ill-equipped to manage given the lack of meaningful relationship between the deemed joint employer and the supplier company's employees. It is an invitation to labor relations chaos, not stability.

Conclusion:

       The proposed rule will not only impact ongoing labor and employment relationships, but also create new tensions and complications that are unnecessary during a period of immense economic challenge. Its effects will harm manufacturers at a time when they need the flexibility and contingency offered through temporary and contract workers to best manage supply chain impacts, demand for manufactured products and other inflationary challenges. The proposed changes would take away this flexibility and will lead to constant and unpredictable labor flows, potentially resulting in overstaffing or understaffing while failing to precisely meet an employer's workforce needs.

       Manufacturers need these flexible employment relationships because they cannot predict when business will spike or drop significantly at a moment's notice. These relationships offer employers the ability to staff rapidly through third parties or other contractors to accommodate customer demands or meet other specialized needs. Without these relationships, employers would be forced to turn away business opportunities or slow down pre-existing orders to their customers. The proposed rule not only severely decreases the available labor pool, but also puts more strain on an already constrained supply chain.

       Under this rule, temporary workers could never physically or legally operate within a company's control. Otherwise, any number of terms and conditions can be used to determine joint employer status. These new terms and conditions would destroy pre-existing employment contracts and drastically change the future of hiring. It is vital that manufacturers be able to retain control over the governing terms and conditions of their relationships with all their workers regardless of their status.

       Finally, the proposed joint employer rule would create new disruptions in the workplace that did not previously exist. The NLRB's expansive and practically limitless definition of employer control will degrade much of the advances in workplace health and safety as well as many other positive innovations in workplace practices that manufacturers have accomplished in the preceding months and years.



       With these concerns and other costs that are not appropriately reflected in the proposed rule, the NAM strongly opposes the Board's proposed changes to the current joint employer standard.

Comments submitted via Regulations.gov by:

Brian Walsh
Director of Labor and Employment Policy National Association of Manufacturers 733 10th Street NW, Suite 700
Washington, DC 20001


