October 10, 2023

Raymond Windmiller
Executive Officer
Executive Secretariat
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
131 M Street NE
Washington, DC 20507

RE: RIN 3046–AB30, Regulations To Implement the 
Pregnant Workers     Fairness Act

Dear Mr. Windmiller: 

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Unions (AFL-
CIO) submits these comments in support of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission’s (“EEOC” or “Commission”) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
(“NPRM”), RIN 3046–AB30, Regulations To Implement the Pregnant Workers 
Fairness Act, published in the Federal Register on August 11, 2023.1

The AFL-CIO is a voluntary federation of 60 national and international labor 
unions that represent over 12.5 million working men and women.  The AFL-CIO 
seeks to ensure that all working people are treated fairly, with decent paychecks 
and benefits, safe working conditions, dignity and equal opportunities.  Unions 
work to ensure not only safe, equitable workplaces but also to give working 
people a collective voice to address workplace injustices without fear of 
retaliation.  The AFL-CIO fights for social and economic justice and strives to 
vanquish oppression in all forms.  Our affiliates represent workers in a variety of 
industries and represent diverse workforces including many workers who are 
women and minorities. A non-exhaustive list of the types of workers represented 
by our affiliates include factory workers, grocery workers, retail workers, 
hospitality workers, healthcare workers, teachers, public sector and private sector 
workers, transportation workers and construction workers. Recent studies show 
that close to half the workers covered by union contracts are women (47.1% as of 
2020) and that percentage has been growing.2

                                                            
1 88 Fed. Reg. 54714 (Aug. 11, 2023).
2 https://www.epi.org/publication/who-are-todays-union-workers/.  Two thirds of workers covered by a 
union contract are women and/or people of color.



As an organization dedicated to worker protections, we are committed to ensuring no worker has 
to choose between their job, or their health and a healthy pregnancy. 

The AFL-CIO has long supported the passage of the Pregnant Worker Fairness Act (PWFA)3. 
This legislation promotes workplace gender equity, healthy pregnancies, and the economic 
security of pregnant and parenting women and their families. It was an important development to 
fill in the gaps which existed with the limited application of other protective legislation under 
some circumstances, particularly for workers with uncomplicated pregnancies.4  Now that the 
PWFA has become effective, it is critical to have clear and understandable regulations in place to 
strengthen the implementation and enforcement of the Act.  

Over the last several decades, there has been a dramatic demographic shift in the workforce, with 
families increasingly depending on women’s income. There are more pregnant workers than ever 
before, and they are working later into their pregnancies, in large part by necessity. Working 
women are primary breadwinners in more than 41% of families and they are co-breadwinners—
bringing in 25-50% of family earnings—in another 23% of these families.5  The simple reality is 
that some of these women – especially those in physically demanding jobs—will have a medical 
need for a temporary job-related accommodation in order to maintain a healthy pregnancy and 
continue to work. Before the passage of the PWFA, there were gaps in the available coverage, 
particularly for women experiencing uncomplicated pregnancies.  The PWFA and these 
regulations will ensure that such accommodations will be provided without any consequential 
employer-discrimination or retaliation. 

Access to appropriate medical care in with respect to pregnancy, childbirth and related medical 
conditions is critical for all women but particularly for low wage workers and persons of color, 
who are more likely to face barriers in obtaining such care. We note there are substantial 
discrepancies in availability and quality of health care for persons of color (and particularly 
Black women). In 2021, the maternal mortality rate for non-Hispanic Black (subsequently, 
Black) women was 69.9 deaths per 100,000 live births, 2.6 times the rate for non-Hispanic White 
(subsequently, White) women (26.6) (Figure 1 and Table). Rates for Black women were 
significantly higher than rates for White and Hispanic women. The increases from 2020 to 2021 
for all race and Hispanic-origin groups were significant. 6

We applaud the EEOC for issuing this strong and workable proposed rule implementing the 
PWFA. The proposed rule provides important clarity for both workers and employers.  It will 
fulfill the law’s purpose of ensuring people with known limitations related to pregnancy, 
childbirth, or related medical conditions can remain healthy and working. This is a critical 
enhancement of previously available protections, particularly for low wage workers and 
minorities who are more likely to have limited paid leave options and most likely not have the 
ability to survive unpaid leaves. Moreover, these workers are also the ones likely to work in 

                                                            
3 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-2000gg-6.

4 88 Fed. Reg. at 54715.
5 https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/pregnant_workers.pdf.
6 Hoyert DL. Maternal mortality rates in the United States, 2021. NCHS Health E-Stats. 2023.
DOI: https://dx.doi.org/10.15620/cdc:124678

2



settings which require heavy labor and work that may be difficult to perform fully throughout a 
pregnancy. 
Our comment will address the following topics: 

1. We appreciate the EEOC’s acknowledgement that workers must be able to receive 
reasonable accommodations without “unnecessary delay.” We offer further suggestions 
to ensure workers indeed get the relief they need, without delay. 

2. We appreciate the EEOC emphasizing that employers need not seek supporting 
documentation, and that if employers do seek documentation, there are limitations on 
doing so. Given the onerous nature of providing medical documentation, particularly for 
low-wage workers, we offer several suggestions to further limit when employers can seek 
documentation. 

3. We appreciate and support the EEOC for the thoughtful framework it set out to determine 
whether an employee or applicant is qualified if they cannot perform one or more 
essential functions. We recommend the EEOC extend “in the near future” to one year 
postpartum, except with respect to lactation which should be extended to two years. 

4. We appreciate the EEOC’s detailed discussion of reasonable accommodations, which 
reflects the range of accommodations workers impacted by pregnancy, childbirth, and 
related medical conditions need to remain healthy and earning an income. We offer 
several suggestions to strengthen the definition of reasonable accommodation. 

5. The definition of “pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions” is 
appropriately expansive. We encourage the EEOC to make some additions to the 
definition.

6. We appreciate the EEOC for rightly asserting that the rule of construction in the PWFA 
should be interpreted the same as the Title VII language. 

7. We appreciate the proposed rule for setting out principles that reflect the realities of how 
employees typically communicate their needs regarding their limitations to an employer 
and suggest some further clarification to the definition. 

8. We applaud the EEOC for its clear interpretation of undue hardship and its inclusion of 
predictable assessments that will rarely meet the undue hardship threshold. We offer 
suggestions for additional predictable assessments. 

Unnecessary Delay 

We applaud the EEOC for clearly stating that employer delay in responding to accommodation 
requests “may result in a violation of the PWFA.”7 Too often employers delay providing 
accommodations for weeks or even months. Delays can often adversely impact the health of 
workers and/or the health of their pregnancies, a concern that the PWFA was meant to address. 

To ensure workers are able to get the accommodations they need without unnecessary delay, we 
recommend the EEOC make several changes to the proposed rule and proposed appendix:

Strengthen the “Unnecessary Delay” Definition 

                                                            
7 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n. 98 (Aug. 11, 2023).

3



1. 1636.4(a)(1) We applaud the EEOC for recognizing that unnecessary delay may result in 
a failure-to-accommodate violation. However, we urge the EEOC to clarify that 
unnecessary delays at any point during the accommodation process may result in 
violation, not just delays in “responding to a reasonable accommodation request.” To that 
end, we recommend the EEOC amend 1636.4(a)(1) by striking “An unnecessary delay in 
responding to a reasonable accommodation request may result in a violation of the 
PWFA” and replacing it with “An unnecessary delay in responding to a reasonable 
accommodation request, engaging in the interactive process, or providing a reasonable 
accommodation may result in a violation of the PWFA.” This will clarify that employers 
cannot avoid a violation simply by providing an initial response to the employee’s 
request, but must also avoid delay during the entirety of the accommodation process. 

2. 1636.4(a)(1)(vi). We agree that covered entities should provide interim accommodations 
during the interactive process if the employee’s original accommodation request cannot 
be immediately granted. However, providing an interim accommodation should not 
excuse “unnecessary delay” if employers proceed to delay the provision of the ultimate 
accommodation the worker requests and needs. We therefore recommend that the EEOC 
remove the sentence “If an interim reasonable accommodation is offered, delay by the 
covered entity is more likely to be excused.”

3. 1636.4(a). We appreciate the EEOC’s inclusion of a variety of factors to be 
considered when evaluating unnecessary delay. We recommend the EEOC add one 
additional factor to the list: “The urgency of the requested accommodation.”

In some cases, pregnant people who do not receive immediate relief can face tragic 
consequences, such as employees who are denied permission to seek emergency medical 
care, and as a result, experience complications or loss.8 This additional factor speaks to 
the importance of immediacy when it comes to providing accommodations under the 
PWFA and will better assist the EEOC and courts in evaluating whether an unnecessary 
delay has occurred.”9   

State That “Unnecessary Delay” in the Interactive Process Can Violate PWFA

1. 1636.3(k). We respectfully ask the EEOC to add a sentence to the definition of 
Interactive Process as follows: “Unnecessary delay, as defined in § 1634.4(a)(1), in 
the interactive process may result in a violation of the PWFA.” The proposed 
appendix already recognizes the importance of expediency in carrying out the interactive 
process, stating “a covered entity should respond expeditiously to a request for reasonable 
accommodation and act promptly to provide the reasonable accommodation.” (emphasis 

                                                            
8 See, e.g., A Better Balance, Long Overdue: It is Time for the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act 8, 11 
(2019), https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Long-Overdue.pdf (citing examples 
of workers who fainted and needed emergency care or experienced pregnancy loss as a result of not being 
accommodated). 
9 See 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n.97 (Aug. 11, 2023). 

4



added).10 The regulation itself should underscore this directive by making clear that 
unnecessarily delaying the interactive process may result in a violation of the PWFA. 

2. 1636.3(k). We also request that the EEOC add an example in the proposed appendix 
that illustrates how quickly and informally the interactive process can occur . For 
example, the EEOC can include a scenario where an employee makes a simple request of 
her immediate supervisor, and her immediate supervisor agrees on the spot to make the 
requested change. 

Add A Definition of “Interim Accommodation” to the Reasonable Accommodation 
Definition

1636.3(h). Providing employers a clear understanding of the meaning of the term 
“interim accommodation” will encourage them to rely on such accommodations to avoid 
delay. To that end, we suggest adding a new subsection 1636.3(h)(6) that reads: “Interim 
Reasonable Accommodation means any temporary or short-term measure put in place 
immediately or as soon as possible after the employee requests an accommodation that 
allows the employee to continue working safely and comfortably while the employer and 
employee engage in the interactive process or the employer implements a reasonable 
accommodation arrived at through the interactive process.” 

Strengthen the Supporting Documentation Framework to Ensure Documentation Demands 
Do Not Contribute to Unnecessary Delays 

4. 1636.3(l) Supporting documentation: We urge the EEOC to adopt the changes 
suggested below to ensure employers do not impose burdensome and unnecessary 
medical certification requirements that often contribute to substantial delays in 
accommodation.

Supporting Documentation 

We appreciate the EEOC’s query as to whether the supporting documentation framework the 
agency sets out in proposed rule 1636.3(l) strikes the right balance between the needs of workers 
and employers. As the EEOC recognizes in the proposed appendix, many workers face barriers 
in obtaining appointments with health care providers in a timely way, or altogether, posing 
significant barriers to obtaining medical documentation.11 This is especially true for workers in 
rural areas and low-wage workers who may not have consistent access to health care and 
disproportionately lack control over their work schedules.12 Furthermore, women of color, 
particularly Black women, often face medical racism that may inhibit or delay their ability to 
                                                            
10 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023).
11 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 & n.87 (Aug. 11, 2023).
12 See, e.g., C. Brigance et. al, March of Dimes, Nowhere to Go: Maternity Deserts Across the U.S. 5, 11 
(2022), https://www.marchofdimes.org/sites/default/files/2022-10/2022_Maternity_Care_Report.pdf 
(noting that 4.7 million women live in counties with limited access to maternity care, and that half of 
women who live in rural communities have to travel over 30 minutes to access an obstetric hospital).  

5



secure supporting documentation.13 Additionally, some medical care providers impose fees to fill 
out forms, which can grow to significant amounts over time, as needs change and as employers 
request new or different documentation.14 For low wage workers who are living from paycheck 
to paycheck, even nominal fees for filling out forms may be prohibitive. Often women who are 
obtaining their healthcare through the public health system are severely limited in terms of 
available appointments and in obtaining documentation. 

The PWFA recognizes the importance of workers obtaining accommodations in a timely fashion 
to protect their health. Several aspects of the proposed rule on supporting documentation would 
unfortunately impose an unnecessary financial, physical, and mental burden on workers, 
contribute to substantial delay in receiving reasonable accommodations, and deter workers from 
seeking the accommodations they need for their health and wellbeing.15

We urge the EEOC to modify the supporting documentation framework as follows:

                                                            
13 See, e.g., Brittany D. Chambers et al, Clinicians' Perspectives on Racism and Black Women's Maternal 
Health, 3 Women’s Health Rep. 476, 479 (2022), 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9148644/ (“Clinicians acknowledged that racism causes 
and impacts the provision of inequitable care provided to Black women, highlighting Black women are 
often dismissed and not included as active participants in care decisions and treatment.”); see also Black 
Mamas Matter Alliance and A Better Balance, Centering the Experiences of Black Mamas in the 
Workplace (2022), https://www.abetterbalance.org/centering-black-mamas-pwfa/ (As part of a listening 
session with Black birth workers and organizational leaders on the difficulties Black pregnant people 
experience obtaining accommodations prior to the PWFA, one participant remarked: “How do I prioritize 
going to the doctor's office, when it's gonna take me forever when I get there, because I'm at a public 
clinic, but I need this money, and I'm gonna be in there with a doctor for 10 minutes, but I spent all day 
trying to get those 10 minutes. Just the entry point, the access, sometimes is an issue.”). 

14 Kimberly Danebrock, Charging Patients for Completing Forms, Cooperative of American Physicians 
(Apr. 15, 2014), https://www.capphysicians.com/articles/charging-patients-completing-forms; Can 
Doctors Charge Employees a Fee for Completing FMLA Certifications?, SHRM,
https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-
qa/pages/octorschargeeforfmlacertifications.aspx (last visited Sept. 18, 2023); see also Meredith Cohn 
and Jessica Calefati, Johns Hopkins Medicine Joins National Move to Charge Patients for Messaging 
Their Doctor, The Baltimore Banner (July 3, 2023), 
https://www.thebaltimorebanner.com/community/public-health/johns-hopkins-mychart-messaging-fees-
7HJ6GX7NGNE7NPYQQ7E7C5EHXE/ (discussing health care systems charging for My Chart 
messages).

15 The legislative record is clear that the PWFA did not intend to include a supporting documentation 
framework that would be onerous for workers. For example, while the Minority Views of the House 
Report stated that “the bill presumably allows employers to require such documentation when the need 
for an accommodation is not obvious,” the Majority did not incorporate that analysis. H.R. Rep. No. 117-
27, at 57 (2021), https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf; see also Long Over 
Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers’ Fairness Act (H.R. 2694) Before the Subcomm. on Civil Rights 
Human. & Servs. of the H. Comm. on Educ. & Labor, 116th Cong. (2019) (Questions for the record 
submitted by Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better Balance, at 13, arguing against the 
inclusion of a medical documentation requirement because employers often seek medical notes as a “way 
to prolong having to provide a very simple or reasonable accommodation”). 

6



1. 1636.3(l)(1)(i). Clarifying “obvious” needs. We agree with the Commission that 
employers should not be permitted to seek medical documentation when the need for 
accommodation is “obvious.” We are concerned, however, that employers could 
unilaterally impose restrictions based on paternalistic stereotypes about what pregnant or 
postpartum people “obviously” need, or that the proposed rule could have the unintended 
consequence of making the employee’s body the subject of invasive scrutiny as 
employers consider whether their pregnancy is “obvious.” For these reasons, we 
encourage the Commission to maintain this important concept in the final regulations, but 
to clarify how it is to be applied. We suggest replacing the current text of 1636.3(l)(1)(i) 
with the following: “(i) When the employee has confirmed, through self-attestation, that 
they have a limitation related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition, and 
the need for accommodation is obvious.” 

Additionally, we suggest providing guidance on how an employer may determine 
whether the need for accommodation is obvious: “A need for accommodation is obvious 
if, in light of the pregnant employee’s known limitation, the employer either knew or 
should have known that the employee would need or did need the accommodation.” For 
example, if a pregnant employee self-attests to regular vomiting and requests temporary 
relocation of their workstation closer to the bathroom, the need for accommodation is 
“obvious” because the employer knows, or should have known, that the employee needs 
easy bathroom access. Similarly “obvious” would be a police officer who self-attests to 
pregnancy and whose uniform and bulletproof vest no longer fit due to her physical 
changes and asks for larger sizes. 

Finally, we encourage the Commission to warn employers in the proposed appendix 
against imposing accommodations not requested by the employee based on assumptions 
that the need for accommodation is “obvious.”

2. 1636.3(l)(1)(iii). We applaud the agency for making clear that employers cannot seek 
supporting documentation for certain straightforward accommodation requests.16 We 
urge the EEOC to expand the list to also include:17

● Time off, up to 8 weeks, to recover from childbirth.18

                                                            
16 88 Fed. Reg. 54769 (Aug. 11, 2023) (stating that it is not reasonable to require supporting 
documentation beyond self-attestation when the accommodation is one listed as a predictable assessment 
or relates to lactation or pumping).

17 In New York City, employers with 4 or more employees are not permitted to ask for medical 
documentation for many of the accommodations on this list. Any accommodations listed here that are not 
on New York City’s list are similarly minor in nature. See NYC Commission on Human Rights Legal 
Enforcement, Guidance on Discrimination on the Basis of Pregnancy, Childbirth, Related Medical 
Conditions, Lactation Accommodations, and Sexual or Reproductive Health Decisions 10 (2021), 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/cchr/downloads/pdf/publications/Pregnancy_InterpretiveGuide_2021.pdf. 

18 See, e.g., NYC Commission on Human Rights Legal Enforcement, Guidance on Discrimination on the 
Basis of Pregnancy, Childbirth, Related Medical Conditions, Lactation Accommodations, and Sexual or 

7



● Time off to attend healthcare appointments related to pregnancy, childbirth, or 
related medical conditions, including, at minimum, at least 16 healthcare 
appointments.19

● Flexible scheduling or remote work for nausea20

● Modifications to uniforms or dress code 
● Allowing rest breaks, as needed 
● Eating or drinking at a workstation 
● Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair 
● Moving a workstation, such as to be closer to a bathroom or lactation space, or 

away from toxins 
● Providing personal protective equipment 
● Reprieve from lifting over 20 pounds 
● Access to closer parking 

We note that this new list will diverge from the list of predictable assessments included in 
the “undue hardship” definition, as the principles underlying whether a particular 
accommodation warrants medical certification differ from the principles underlying the 
undue hardship question. 

3. 1636.3(l)(2): We commend the EEOC for making clear that employers may only demand 
“reasonable documentation.” This is critical. In the early months of PWFA 
implementation, some employers have imposed extremely onerous documentation 
requirements, similar to those under the FMLA and ADA, that far exceed “reasonable.”21

As a result, many employees have not received the accommodations they need in a timely 

                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Reproductive Health Decisions 10 (2021), 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/cchr/downloads/pdf/publications/Pregnancy_InterpretiveGuide_2021.pdf. 

19 Nearly every state paid sick time law permits employers to request a healthcare provider note only if 
the person needs time off for 3 or more consecutive days. See A Better Balance, Know Your Rights: State 
and Local Paid Sick Time Laws FAQs (last updated July 7, 2022), 
https://www.abetterbalance.org/resources/know-your-rights-state-and-local-paid-sick-time-laws/.  We 
suggest a minimum of 16 appointments as it reflects the average number of appointments for prenatal and 
postnatal care for low-risk pregnancies. See Alex Friedman Peahl et. al, A Comparison of International 
Prenatal Care Guidelines for Low-Risk Women to Inform High-Value Care, 222 American Journal of 
Obstetrics & Gynecology 505, 505 (2020), https://www.ajog.org/article/S0002-9378(20)30029-6/fulltext 
(stating that the median number of recommended prenatal care visits for a low-risk pregnancy in the 
United States is 12-14 visits); ACOG Committee Opinion No. 736: Optimizing Postpartum Care, 131 
Obstetrics & Gynecology 140, 141 (2018), 
https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/fulltext/2018/05000/acog_committee_opinion_no__736__optimizi
ng.42.aspx (recommending at least two postpartum care appointments, with ongoing care as needed). 
20 See 29 CFR § 825.115(f) ("Absences attributable to incapacity [due to pregnancy] qualify for FMLA 
leave even though the employee . . . does not receive treatment from a health care provider during the 
absence . . . . An employee who is pregnant may be unable to report to work because of severe morning 
sickness."). 
21 Examples on file with the Center for WorkLife Law & A Better Balance. 

8



manner. We strongly encourage the agency to do the following to ensure employers 
request only “reasonable” documentation: 

a. Modify the definition of reasonable documentation found in 1636.3(l)(2). It is 
unnecessarily invasive for an employer to demand to know their employee’s 
precise condition or a description of it; rather it should be sufficient for a health 
care provider to (1) describe the employee’s limitation that necessitates 
accommodation, (2) confirm that the limitation is related to pregnancy, childbirth, 
or a related medical condition, and (3) state that they require an accommodation. 
For example, medical documentation need not state that a worker needs to attend 
a medical appointment related to a miscarriage, but can simply state that the 
employee needs to attend a medical appointment during the workday (the 
limitation) due to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition, and thus a 
modified start time (the accommodation) is recommended.

b. Make clear in the proposed rule or proposed appendix that employers cannot 
require employees to submit any particular medical certification form, so long as 
the health care provider documents the requisite three pieces of information, as 
explained immediately above. Additionally, make clear that employers cannot 
require employees to complete ADA or FMLA certification forms in order to 
receive a PWFA accommodation, as such forms seek substantially more 
information than is “reasonable” under PWFA. 

c. We urge the EEOC to clarify that under no circumstances may an employer 
require an employee to take any sort of test to confirm their pregnancy or to 
provide documentation or other proof of pregnancy. The Commission should 
clarify that self-attestations of pregnancy are sufficient.

4. 1636.3(l)(3) Health care providers. 

a. We applaud the EEOC for its comprehensive, albeit non-exhaustive, list of health 
care providers from whom employees can seek documentation. However, 
employers should not have the discretion to second guess the judgment of 
licensed healthcare providers due to an assumption that they are not “appropriate” 
for the situation. We therefore urge the Commission to remove the terms 
“appropriate” and “in a particular situation” from the sentence “The covered 
entity may request documentation from the appropriate health care provider in a 
particular situation” (emphasis added). 

b. We also urge the EEOC to make clear in the proposed rule or proposed appendix 
that employers must accept documentation from telehealth care providers. 

c. We applaud the Commission for making clear that employers cannot require 
employees to be examined by the employer’s healthcare provider, as this 
employer practice invades privacy, could lead to differential evaluations based on 
race, imposes unnecessary delay, and is a significant deterrent to seeking 
accommodation. We also applaud the EEOC’s emphasis on ensuring employers 
maintain employee privacy when seeking documentation. 

5. We appreciate that the EEOC mentioned in the proposed appendix that it is a best 
practice for employers to provide interim accommodations if an employee is delayed in 

9



obtaining supporting documentation.22 We suggest the agency strengthen this provision 
by clarifying that the interim accommodation provided must be an accommodation that 
meets the employee’s needs and would not constitute an adverse action, such as forced 
unpaid leave, against the employee. 

Temporary Excusal from Essential Functions 

§1636.3(f)(2) Qualified employee or applicant. We thank the EEOC for the thoughtful 
framework it set out to determine whether an employee or applicant is qualified if they cannot 
perform one or more essential functions. We recommend that the definition of “in the near 
future” post-pregnancy be one year rather than forty weeks, except with respect to lactation, 
which we believe should be extended to 2 years. Furthermore, we support the EEOC’s approach 
to not combine periods of temporary suspension of an essential function during pregnancy and 
post-pregnancy. 

(a) The definition of “in the near future” should be extended to one year postpartum, 
except with respect to lactation which should be extended to two years. We strongly 
recommend that the Commission extend the “near future” timeframe in the postpartum 
context to one year. The Commission cites to important medical findings and Medicaid 
extension all pointing to the importance of one year for postpartum reasonable 
accommodations.23 Allowing a temporary excusal of an essential function for generally 
one year postpartum  is critical for maternal and infant health. It is especially important 
for pregnant people who are at a higher risk, including Black women, who are three times 
as likely to die of pregnancy-related causes than white women.24

In addition to extending the definition of “in the near future” to one year following 
childbirth, we urge the Commission to extend it to two years for lactation-related 
accommodations. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends parents express 
milk for at least two years following childbirth for both maternal and infant health.25

Apart from these two recommendations, we believe the general approach adopted by the 
Commission comports with the PWFA’s statutory language, legislative intent, and the 
real life experiences of pregnant and postpartum workers.

(b) We recommend keeping the proposed rule’s framework of restarting the time frame for 
                                                            
22 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 (Aug. 11, 2023) (“[T]he Commission encourages employers who choose to require 
documentation, when that is permitted under this regulation, to grant interim accommodations as a best 
practice if an employee indicates that they have tried to obtain documentation but there is a delay in 
obtaining it…”). 
23 88 Fed. Reg. 54724-25 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
24 Working Together to Reduce Black Maternal Mortality, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(Apr. 4, 2023), https://www.cdc.gov/healthequity/features/maternal-mortality/index.html. 
25 Joan Younger Meek, Lawrence Noble, and the Section on Breastfeeding, Policy Statement: 
Breastfeeding and the Use of Human Milk, 150 Pediatrics 1, 11 (2022), 
https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/150/1/e2022057988/188347/Policy-Statement-
Breastfeeding-and-the-Use-of?autologincheck=redirected. Employers can still raise a defense that 
accommodating lactation-related needs for two years would impose an undue hardship.

10



excusing an essential function, precisely for the reasons stated in the proposed appendix–
that pregnant workers very often cannot possibly anticipate what needs or limitations may 
occur postpartum. The same may be true during pregnancy itself, and thus, each 
accommodation request should be considered based on specific “limitation” at issue. We 
strongly urge the EEOC to state in the regulation the principle found in the Interpretive 
Guidance that the timeframe restarts with each new accommodation request and 
following return from childbirth leave. 

Reasonable Accommodation 

We appreciate the EEOC’s detailed discussion of reasonable accommodations, which reflects the 
range of accommodations workers impacted by pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical 
conditions need to remain healthy and earning an income. 

1636.3(i). We suggest three ways the Commission can better emphasize that reasonable 
accommodation includes modifications or adjustments to alleviate pain and discomfort and 
to avoid health risks. 

1. We urge the EEOC to add a new subsection to 1636.3(i) that provides as an 
additional example of reasonable accommodation: “modifications that alleviate pain 
or discomfort and reduce health risks for the employee or applicant or their 
pregnancy.” We appreciate the EEOC’s highlighting in the proposed appendix the 
critical nature of accommodations that alleviate increased pain and health risks.26 We 
suggest that the EEOC make this category of accommodation more prominent in the rule 
itself and add additional examples to the proposed appendix. 

Employers have historically denied pregnant workers accommodations due to a lack of 
“evidence” of a measurable and diagnosable complication, and many healthcare 
providers believe they are not allowed to recommend accommodations without the same 
evidence.27 Highlighting the law's purpose as it relates to risk and pain avoidance, 
therefore, is critical. This is especially true for women of color, who are more likely both 
to work in physically demanding jobs,28 and to have their employers and healthcare 

                                                            
26 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
27 ACOG Committee Opinion 733: Employment Considerations During Pregnancy and the Postpartum 
Period, 131 Obstetrics & Gynecology 115, 119 (2018), https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-
guidance/committee-opinion/articles/2018/04/employment-considerations-during-pregnancy-and-the-
postpartum-period (stating that it is generally safe to work during pregnancy without adverse effects to 
the pregnant person or fetus, but that accommodations are needed for workers whose jobs expose them to 
toxins, “very physically demanding” work, or ”an increased risk of falls or injuries,” as well as to address 
pregnancy complications like gestational diabetes).
28 National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health and National Women’s Law Center, Accommodating 
Pregnancy On the Job: The Stakes for Women of Color and Immigrant Women (2014), 
https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/the_stakes_for_woc_final.pdf. 

11



providers underestimate their pain and apply higher levels of risk tolerance toward 
them.29

2. Additionally, we strongly urge the EEOC to delete the language in 1636.3(i)(2) 
which qualifies that “adjustments to allow an employee or applicant to work 
without increased pain or increased risk” must be “due to the employee’s or 
applicant’s known limitation.” This language is unnecessary. No other example in the 
paragraph contains such a clause, and everything in the paragraph is necessarily qualified 
by a link to a known limitation. Treating this category of accommodation differently may 
create confusion about the legal standard by suggesting that the employee or applicant 
must make some additional showing. 

3. Finally, we suggest adding to the proposed appendix the following examples of 
reasonable accommodation to alleviate increased pain and discomfort or to avoid 
increased risk to health: 1) a farmworker being temporarily transferred to an indoor 
position to avoid the risks of falling in a slippery field and exposure to toxic pesticides, 
(2) a secretary experiencing pelvic pain being allowed to work remotely to alleviate pain 
that would be exacerbated by the commute and sitting upright all day; (3) a warehouse 
worker being given a portable cooling device to avoid pregnancy risks from excessive 
heat; and (4) a security guard being temporarily reassigned from nighttime to daytime 
shifts to avoid increased fatigue and the health risks (miscarriage and preterm birth) 
associated with working at night. 

1636.3(i)(3): We commend the Commission’s thoughtful treatment of leave as a reasonable 
accommodation and suggest modifications. PWFA’s purpose could not be realized without 
access to leave as an accommodation. The most at-risk workers have zero sick days and are 
ineligible for FMLA. For them, before PWFA’s passage, taking a few days off to attend health 
care appointments put them at risk of lawful termination. While the U.S.  desperately needs a 
comprehensive paid leave program, leave provided as an accommodation under PWFA will 
provide a lifeline to many who would have otherwise been fired for seeking basic medical care 
or taking time to recover from childbirth. Further, leave as a PWFA accommodation will protect 
the employment of the many workers who have access to state-administered paid leave, but 
previously had inadequate job protection. 

We suggest two modifications to the proposed rule regarding leave as an accommodation in 
1636.3(i)(3).

In its discussion on leave, the Commission notes one potential accommodation as “The ability to 
choose whether to use paid leave … or unpaid leave to the extent that the covered entity allows 
                                                            
29 Jamila Taylor et al., Center for American Progress, Eliminating Racial Disparities in Maternal and 
Infant Mortality 4-6 (May 2019), https://www.americanprogress.org/article/eliminating-racial-disparities-
maternal-infant-mortality/.; Molly R. Altman, et al. Information and Power: Women of Color's 
Experiences Interacting with Health Care Providers in Pregnancy and Birth, 238 Soc. Sci. & Med 
112491 (2019), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.112491; see also Saraswathi Vedam et al., The 
Giving Voice to Mothers Study: Inequity and Mistreatment During Pregnancy and Childbirth in the 
United States, 16:77 Reproductive Health (2019), https://reproductive-health-
journal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12978-019-0729-2. 

12



employees using leave not related to pregnancy… to choose…” 1636.3(i)(3)(iii). Similarly, the 
Commission notes in the proposed appendix that “an employer must continue an employee’s 
health insurance benefits during their leave period to the extent that it does so for other 
employees in a similar leave status.” Fed. Reg. 54780-81.  We respectfully suggest that, under 
PWFA, whether these potential accommodations should be provided turns on the question of 
undue hardship, not on how other employees are treated. Accordingly, we urge the EEOC to 
modify its treatment of these leave-related accommodations by deleting the comparative 
reference to other employees.30 As with all accommodations, employers may be obligated to 
modify standard practices to accommodate people with limitations related to pregnancy, 
childbirth or related medical conditions, even if a particular benefit is not routinely offered to 
other employees.31 Most recent statistics show that while 92% of union members have a paid 
sick benefit, only 78% of non-union workers do.32

Additionally, we strongly urge the Commission to include “continuation of health 
insurance benefits during the period of leave” in 1636.3(i)(3) as another potential leave-
related accommodation that must be provided absent undue hardship. For many workers, 
the opportunity to access leave as a reasonable accommodation is hollow without continuation of 
health benefits, as access to uninterrupted healthcare is vital during pregnancy and the 
postpartum period.33 This interpretation is supported by the intent of the PWFA,34 which not only 
has the goal of continued employment, but also the goal of promoting maternal and child 
health.35 Indeed, the House report on the PWFA clearly stated that pregnant people “want, and 

                                                            
30 Of course, if other employees receive a particular accommodation, that may be evidence of no undue 
hardship. 
31 Similarly, we respectfully suggest that employers may be required to “provide reserved parking spaces” 
as a PWFA reasonable accommodation, even when it is not the case that “the employee is otherwise 
entitled to use employer provided parking.” 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023).
32 https://www.bls.gov/news.release/ebs2.t06.htm

33 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Improving Access to Maternal Health Care in Rural 
Communities 6 (“A lack of access to maternal health care can result in a number of negative maternal 
health outcomes including premature birth, low-birth weight, maternal mortality, severe maternal 
morbidity, and increased risk of postpartum depression”), https://www.cms.gov/About-CMS/Agency-
Information/OMH/equity-initiatives/rural-health/09032019-Maternal-Health-Care-in-Rural-
Communities.pdf. 
34 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 22-24 (2021), https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-
117hrpt27.pdf.
35 ADA guidance from 2002 states that employers must continue insurance benefits when an employee is 
on leave as an ADA accommodation only to the same extent they do so for other employees. See EEOC, 
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text after 
n. 59 (2002), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-
unduehardship-under-ada. However, the statutory text of the ADA and its implementing regulations 
support the principle that providing continued health benefits during leave may be a reasonable 
accommodation, even if other employees do not receive the same benefit, where the continued benefits 
can be provided without undue hardship. The longstanding ADA principle that gives employees with 
disabilities an affirmative right to receive the same health insurance benefits as are provided to other 
employees stems from the ADA’s prohibition on “limiting, segregating, or classifying a job applicant or 

13



oftentimes need, to keep working during their pregnancies, both for income and to retain health 
insurance.”36 The reasonableness of providing continued health insurance benefits during a 
period of leave is also supported by the FMLA requirement that employers do so for up to 12 
weeks every year,37 as well as state laws that require continued health benefits during leave taken 
for pregnancy or other health reasons.38

1636.3(i)(4). We urge the Commission to expand the examples of reasonable 
accommodation for lactation. We appreciate the EEOC’s highlighting the reasonable 
accommodations often needed by lactating workers who are pumping milk. While we 
wholeheartedly celebrate the recent passage of the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act, that law is 
limited to providing reasonable break time and private space for only one year following the 
birth of an employee’s child.39 However, many lactating employees require other reasonable 
accommodations, including the pumping accommodations identified by the Commission in 
1636.3(i)(4)(ii), as well as accommodations that are unrelated to pumping. We encourage the 
Commission to highlight some of these other lactation accommodations by adding a new section 
3(i)(4)(iii): “Any other job modification, including those identified in 1636.3(i)(2), that would 
remove barriers to producing or expressing human milk, breastfeeding, or chestfeeding; avoid or 
alleviate lactation-related health complications; or reduce the risk of contaminating human milk 
produced by the employee.” 

1636.3(h). We recommend the following changes to the proposed appendix regarding 1) 
penalizing employees for utilizing accommodations; and 2) compliance with production 
standards:

a) The Commission seeks comment on whether there are other situations where ordinary 
workplace policies operate to penalize employees for using reasonable accommodations. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                   
employee in a way that adversely affects the opportunities or status of such applicant or employee 
because of the disability” See 42 U.S.C. § 12112; 29 C.F.R. pt. 1630 app. 1630.5 (“this part is intended to 
require that employees with disabilities be accorded equal access to whatever health insurance coverage 
the employer provides to other employees.”). But this non-discrimination concept should not be conflated 
with the standard for providing reasonable accommodation, which does not turn on how other employees 
are treated. Even if the principle from the 2002 guidance were supported by the ADA, it would not be 
instructive in the PWFA context, given the clear legislative intent of the PWFA to promote healthy 
pregnancies and reproductive health and to allow employees to take leave following childbirth, all while 
maintaining their health insurance. 
36 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 24 (2021), https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf. 
37 Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. § 2614(c); 29 C.F.R. § 825.209. 
38 For example, under the California Pregnancy Disability Leave Law and the California Family Rights 
Act, employees have a right to take up to 7 months of leave with continued health insurance benefits
during pregnancy and following childbirth. Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11044(c) (employer must continue to 
provide health insurance benefits during 4 months of pregnancy disability leave); Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, 
§ 11092(c) (continued health insurance benefits for up to 12 weeks for leave taken to bond with a new 
child). 
39 Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328 
Division KK). 

14



We suggest highlighting that the application to pregnant people of “no-fault” 
attendance/tardy control policies may cause employers to violate PWFA as such policies 
are applied universally without consideration of individual circumstances. For example, 
an employee using a flexible scheduling accommodation due to morning sickness may be 
automatically penalized under a “no-fault” attendance policy.40

b) Additionally, with regard to production standards and quotas, the Commission notes that 
under the ADA, “a reasonable accommodation cannot excuse an employee from 
complying with valid production standards that are applied uniformly to all employees.”41

We encourage the Commission to recognize that this principle is grounded in the ADA’s 
requirement that employees must be able to perform the essential functions of the job, 
with or without a reasonable accommodation, to be qualified. Indeed, the cited 
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation cites to the ADA’s definition of 
“essential functions” for support. In the PWFA context, because the statutory language 
specifically discusses how essential job functions can be temporarily suspended, so too 
must any production standards associated with suspended functions. Therefore, we 
respectfully ask the EEOC to delete this reference to the ADA citation, or alternatively, 
note that it differs in the PWFA context. We also ask the Commission to consider adding 
to the section in the proposed appendix on ensuring workers are not penalized for using 
accommodations an example of a situation where an employee is excused from a 
production standard that was not met because of the temporary suspension of an essential 
function.

Related Medical Conditions

The definition of “pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions” is appropriately 
expansive. In expressly seeking to supplement the protections currently afforded to workers 
under the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA), the PWFA is properly read to incorporate the 
case law interpreting the PDA’s parallel language.42

1636.3(b) - Pregnancy. We encourage the EEOC to clarify that the term pregnancy includes 
“common pregnancy symptoms,” such as increased bodily pain, discomfort, fatigue, changes in 

                                                            
40 See, e.g., A Better Balance, Misled & Misinformed: How Some U.S. Employers Use “No Fault” 
Attendance Policies to Trample on Workers’ Rights (And Get Away With It) 17 (2020), 
https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp-
content/uploads/2020/06/Misled_and_Misinformed_A_Better_Balance-1-1.pdf (discussing story of 
pregnant worker who was terminated after leaving work to rush to the hospital due to bleeding and 
fearing she was miscarrying). 

41 88 Fed. Reg. 54780 & n. 49 (Aug. 11, 2023) (citing Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text 
accompanying n. 14 (2002), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-
accommodation-and-unduehardship-under-ada).
42 See 168 Cong. Rec. H. 10528 (2022) (statement of Rep. Nadler), 
https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2022/12/23/168/201/CREC-2022-12-23.pdf (“The Pregnant Workers 
Fairness Act aligns with Title VII in providing protections and reasonable accommodations for 
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions’’, like lactation.”) 

15



thirst and appetite, headaches, lightheadedness, mood changes, heartburn and indigestion, and 
leg cramps. 

1636.3(b) - Related Medical Conditions. 

a. We strongly support the inclusion of termination of pregnancy, including by abortion, in 
the enumerated examples of “related medical conditions” that may require 
accommodation. In addition to comprising an essential component of reproductive health 
care43 needed by hundreds of thousands of people in the U.S. every year44, abortion’s 
place among the full range of statutorily-protected “related medical conditions” is rooted 
in decades of legislative, administrative, and judicial authority. Indeed, in enacting the 
PDA, Congress expressly confirmed its intent that the statute protect workers from 
discrimination for obtaining abortion care.45 The EEOC reaffirmed abortion as a “related 
medical condition” in its 2015 guidance.46 It also made it explicit that fringe benefits like 
paid sick days must be provided for abortions if they are provided for other medical 
conditions.47 Finally, as the Commission notes in the proposed Interpretive Guidance, 
courts consistently have found that the PDA’s protections encompass the right to be free 
from discrimination on the basis of contemplating or obtaining abortion care.48

b. Additionally, we appreciate the EEOC’s comprehensive reading of the circumstances in 
which medical conditions are “affected by” pregnancy or childbirth. We encourage the 
EEOC to specifically include examples of conditions that are “affected by” pregnancy, 
childbirth, or related medical conditions—i.e. exacerbated by pregnancy or childbirth. 
Including additional examples will clarify that employees might need accommodations to 
mitigate an existing condition, chronic illness, or disability that is aggravated by 
pregnancy or childbirth or that is aggravated because the employee must discontinue their 
usual treatment or medication due to pregnancy. For example, an employee with irritable 

                                                            
43 Facts Are Important: Abortion Is Healthcare, The American College of Obstetricians and 
Gynecologists, https://www.acog.org/advocacy/facts-are-important/abortion-is-healthcare (last visited 
Sept. 18, 2023). 

44 Jeff Diamant & Besheer Mohamed, What the Data Says About Abortion in the U.S., Pew Research 
Center (Jan. 11, 2023),
https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2023/01/11/what-the-data-says-about-abortion-in-the-u-s-2/. 

45 See H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 95-1786, at 4 (1978) (“Thus, no employer may, for example, fire or refuse to 
hire a woman simply because she has exercised her right to have an abortion.”). See also Questions and 
Answers on the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 29 C.F.R. pt. 1604 app., Introduction (1979) (“A woman 
is therefore protected against such practices as being fired, or refused a job or promotion, merely because 
she is pregnant or has had an abortion.”). 

46 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination and 
Related Issues (2015), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-pregnancy-
discrimination-and-related-issues#IA4a. 

47 Questions and Answers on the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 29 C.F.R. pt. 1604 app., question 35 
(1979).

48 88 Fed. Reg. 54774 & n.11 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
16



bowel syndrome (IBS) that is exacerbated by morning sickness should be allowed to take 
longer lunch breaks to avoid triggering an IBS flare-up (regardless of whether their IBS 
was already being accommodated in other ways), and an employee who has to stop 
taking their usual medication for ADHD while pregnant should be eligible for 
accommodations related to any ADHD symptoms they experience. 

c. We also applaud the EEOC’s inclusion of “menstrual cycles” as a “related medical 
condition” that employers are obligated to accommodate. Our reproductive lives last for 
decades, and our needs will differ at various points during those years, not to mention
from pregnancy to pregnancy. Consistent with that reality, we urge the agency to add 
perimenopause and menopause to the list of “related medical conditions.” While we 
recognize that the list of examples is non-exhaustive, and that both of these conditions
fall within a reasonable construction of “menstrual cycles,” the documented 
dismissiveness perimenopausal and menopausal women face from their employers 
demands making those conditions’ inclusion explicit. Recent studies confirm what most 
of us already know: that perimenopause and menopause symptoms can last for years, and 
can interfere with work in myriad ways.49 Like menstruation, like infertility, and like the 
use of birth control – all of which are specifically included in the regulation –
perimenopause and menopause are related to a worker’s capacity for pregnancy, and their 
explicit inclusion will provide valuable guidance to employers and the millions of 
affected workers. 

Relationship to Other Laws  

1636.7(b) - Rule of Construction. The EEOC correctly recognizes that, since its enactment 
nearly 60 years ago, Section 702 of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act allows religious employers 
to preference workers who share the employer’s religious beliefs without facing liability for 
religious discrimination, but does not insulate those employers from claims of discrimination 
based on other protected characteristics. Consistent with this textual scope, the inclusion of 
Section 702 in PWFA likewise permits a religious employer, when faced, for instance, with the 
circumstance of a coreligionist and a worker of another faith seeking the same accommodation, 
to preference the coreligionist. It does not excuse the employer from the statutory obligation to 
reasonably accommodate the other worker, unless doing so would impose an undue hardship, as 
is true for nonreligious employers. It also does not permit the employer to deny the other worker 
a reasonable accommodation based on religious belief or any other characteristic protected by 
Title VII.  
Amendments that would have broadly exempted religious employers from the requirements of 
the PWFA were rejected in both the House and the Senate, demonstrating that Congress’ intent 

                                                            
49 See, e.g., Stephanie S. Faubion, et al., Impact of Menopause Symptoms on Women in the Workplace, 98 
Mayo Clinic Proc. 833 (2023) (among study participants, roughly 15 percent had either missed work or 
reduced their hours because of menopause symptoms, with Black women and Latinas reporting the worst 
symptoms and adverse work outcomes); Carrot Fertility, Menopause in the Workplace (Sept. 27, 2022), 
https://content.get-carrot.com/rs/418-PQJ-171/images/Carrot%20-
%20Menopause%20in%20the%20workplace.pdf (20 percent of study participants reported losing work 
hours because of menopause symptoms, and 70 percent had considered some form of work change, such 
as switching to a part-time schedule or retiring early, due to menopause symptoms).

17



was not to exempt religious entities from the PWFA.50 The EEOC correctly recognizes that 
nothing in this provision categorically exempts religious employers from the requirements of 42 
USC 2000gg-1.

Known Limitation 

We applaud the proposed rule for making clear that a “limitation” can be “modest, minor, and/or 
episodic.”51 We also appreciate that the EEOC set out principles that reflect the realities of how 
employees – who are rarely trained in law– typically communicate their needs to an employer 
and suggest some further clarification to the definition. 

1636.3(c). The PWFA is clear that a “representative” of the employee or applicant can 
communicate the employee’s limitation and need for accommodation on the employee’s behalf.52

We support that the proposed rule defines “employee representative” to include a family 
member, friend, and health care provider. We suggest the EEOC add “co-worker,” “union 
representative,” and “manager” to this list.53 The proposed rule also states the employee’s 
representative can include an “other representative.” We suggest the EEOC replace “other 
representative” with a more descriptive definition, e.g, a “a person who communicates to the 
employer the needs of the employee or applicant.” 

We also recommend that the EEOC include an example in the proposed appendix of a third party 
communicating the employee’s limitation to the covered entity and illustrating how the covered 
entity should respond to the request. The example should make clear that once the third party has 
made the covered entity aware of the employee’s need for accommodation, the employer must 
engage in the interactive process directly with the employee who is in need of accommodation 
(not their representative). However, if our suggestion that other representative be expanded to 
specifically state among those covered would be a “union representative”, in a covered entity 
where the worker is covered by a union contract, in addition to engaging with the employee in 
the interactive process directly, the employee should be allowed to include their union 
representative in those discussions.  

1636.3(d)(1). We applaud the proposed rule’s specific directives that oral notice is sufficient to 
make a worker’s pregnancy-related limitation “known” to the employer, and that an employer 
may not require written notice before responding to a request for accommodation. We further 
support the proposed appendix’s recognition that a worker need not use any “specific words or 
phrases” or legalese like “reasonable accommodation” to make their limitation “known.” 
                                                            
50 See Markup of H.R. 1065, Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, Before the H. Comm. on Educ. & Lab., 
117th Cong. (Mar. 24, 2021) (substitute amendment offered by Rep. Russ Fulcher (R–ID)), 
https://docs.house.gov/meetings/ED/ED00/20210324/111413/BILLS-117-HR1065-A000370-Amdt-
2.pdf; S. Amdt. 6577, 117th Cong. (2022), https://www.congress.gov/amendment/117th-congress/senate-
amendment/6577/text. 
51 88 Fed. Reg. 54767. 
52  42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4). 

53 We ask the EEOC to make clear that only a manager who is not an employee’s direct supervisor can act 
as the employee’s third party representative. 

18



Strengthening 1636.3(d) & 1636.3(d)(3). Despite correctly recognizing that workers often 
express the need for accommodation in indirect ways – for instance, by telling a supervisor, “I’m 
having trouble getting to work at my scheduled time because of morning sickness”54 – the 
proposed rule states that “communicated to the employer” means a worker “has made [a] request 
for accommodation.” Section 1636.3(d) (emphasis added). The proposed rule then states that to 
“[r]equest an accommodation,” the worker “need only communicate to the covered entity that the 
employee . . . (i) Has a limitation, and (ii) Needs an adjustment or change at work.” Section 
1636.3(d)(3) (emphasis added). Framing the mandated communication as a “request” assumes a 
worker’s knowledge of the right to such modifications, and demanding that the worker convey a 
“need” for a modification similarly assumes that the worker believes they are entitled to have 
their “needs” met by the employer. But most workers – and especially low-wage workers, people 
who are new to the workforce, immigrants, and/or non-native English speakers – do not even 
know they are entitled to such accommodation, much less feel empowered to request one. 

As such, a better approach to defining “Communicated to the employer” would be to: 

a) Revise § 1636.3(d) to read, “‘Communicated to the employer’ means an employee or 
applicant, or a representative of the employee or applicant, has communicated to the 
covered entity that the employee or applicant: (i) Has a limitation that (ii) Necessitates
an adjustment or change at work.” 

b) Revise the list of employer representatives to whom the employee may communicate 
their limitations. The proposed appendix appropriately states that employees may 
communicate their needs to “the people who assign them daily tasks and whom they 
would normally consult if they had questions or concerns.” However, the language used 
in the proposed regulation itself — “communicating with a supervisor, manager, [or] 
someone who has supervisory authority for the employee” 1636.3(d)—doesn’t accurately 
capture as broad of a range of individuals to whom the employee may communicate their 
limitation. We therefore suggest replacing the phrase “who has supervisory authority” 
with “who plays a supervisory role.”  

Undue hardship 

1636.3(j)(4). We support the proposed rule’s explanation of “predictable assessments,” meaning 
examples of accommodations requested by employees due to pregnancy that will, in nearly all 
instances, not be considered to impose an undue hardship. This is based on the fact that many 
pregnancy- and childbirth-related limitations are temporary, common, and predictable and 
require only “simple and straightforward” workplace adjustments. 

The Commission seeks comment on whether more accommodations should be included under 
this category. In response, we urge the EEOC to 1) make clear that predictable assessments with 
respect to undue hardship should be extended to also include accommodations requested due to 
childbirth and related medical conditions; and 2) add the following accommodations to the list of 
predictable assessments:

● Modifications to uniforms or dress code 

                                                            
54 88 Fed. Reg. 54722.

19



● Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair 
● Allowing rest breaks, as needed 
● Moving a workstation, such as to be closer to a bathroom or lactation space, or away 

from toxins 
● Providing personal protective equipment 
● Access to closer parking
● Eating or drinking at a workstation
● Time off to attend 16 healthcare appointments related to pregnancy or childbirth

The above accommodations are similar to the four accommodations the EEOC included in the 
proposed rule as “predictable assessments” as they, too, are simple and straightforward. 

We also support the discussion in the proposed rule and proposed appendix regarding elements 
that cannot form the basis of an undue hardship defense, and make these additional suggestions: 

1) 1636.3(j)(5). 

a) We applaud the EEOC for stating in the proposed rule that an employer may not 
establish an undue hardship defense based on its “mere assumption or speculation 
that other employees might seek a reasonable accommodation, or even the same 
reasonable accommodation, in the future.” This language should be strengthened 
so as to not suggest that an employer can establish such a defense in situations 
where it has more than a “mere assumption or speculation” that other employees 
will request an accommodation. Regardless of its level of certainty, an employer 
should never be allowed to deny an accommodation requested by any individual 
employee based on fears that it will have to provide reasonable accommodations 
to other employees in the future - whether the employer’s belief is speculative or 
grounded in fact. Each accommodation decision must be made based on the need 
of the individual employee requesting the accommodation and the circumstances 
at hand. 

b) We applaud the EEOC for making clear “that a covered entity that receives 
numerous requests for the same or similar accommodation at the same 
time…cannot deny all of them simply because processing the volume of current 
or anticipated requests is, or would be, burdensome or because it cannot grant all 
of them.”55 However, we urge the EEOC to remove the assertion that “The 
covered entity may point to past and cumulative costs or burden of 
accommodations that have already been granted to other employees when 
claiming the hardship posed by another request for the same or similar 
accommodation”56 and replace it with the following language: “The covered 
entity may not point to cumulative costs of accommodations that have already 
been granted to other employees when claiming the hardship. The undue hardship 
analysis must be done on a case by case basis.”

                                                            
55 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023). 

56 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023). 

20



c) We also encourage the Commission to add that 1) other employees’ fear or 
prejudice regarding the employee’s pregnancy, childbirth, or related condition, or; 
2) the possibility that the accommodation would negatively impact other 
employees’ morale, cannot constitute an undue hardship. These examples are 
similar to examples explicitly included in the ADA’s Interpretive Guidance.57

d) Moreover, the PWFA intentionally avoided including “direct threat” language 
from the ADA, and the EEOC should make clear that any claims of undue 
hardship based on claims of direct threat are invalid.58

e) Finally, the fact that an employee has or has previously received an 
accommodation for pregnancy, disability, or both should not be a valid reason to 
claim undue hardship. Allowing such claims would violate the purposes of both 
PWFA and the ADA by penalizing qualified employees for using the 
accommodations they are entitled to under the law.

We applaud the EEOC for its comprehensive proposed rule on the Pregnant Workers Fairness 
Act, which fairly balances the interest of employers with the interest of employees to protect 
their pregnancy and reproductive health without compromising their health or their family’s 
economic security. This gap filling legislation is so important to working people so that they can 
continue to work and not have to choose between their job and paycheck and their health and 
healthy pregnancy. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed regulation. 

                                                            
57 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation 
and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text accompanying n. 117-18 (2002), 
http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-
unduehardship-under-ada).

58 See Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers’ Fairness Act (H.R. 2694) Before the Subcomm. 
on Civil Rights Human. & Servs. of the H. Comm. on Educ. & Labor, 116th Cong. (2019) (Questions for 
the record submitted by Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better Balance, at 12). 

21



Sincerely,

/s/ Yona Rozen
Yona Rozen
Associate General Counsel

/s/Charity Wilson
Charity Wilson
Legislation Representative

AFL-CIO
815 Black Lives Matter Plaza N.W.
Washington, DC 20006
(202) 412-9519
yrozen@aflcio.org
cwilson@aflcio.org

22