29096

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
COMMISSION
29 CFR Part 1636
RIN 3046–AB30

Implementation of the Pregnant
Workers Fairness Act
AGENCY: Equal Employment

Opportunity Commission.
ACTION: Final rule and interpretive

guidance.
SUMMARY: The Equal Employment

Opportunity Commission is issuing this
final rule and interpretive guidance to
implement the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act, which requires a covered
entity to provide reasonable
accommodations to a qualified
employee’s or applicant’s known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, unless the
accommodation will cause an undue
hardship on the operation of the
business of the covered entity.
DATES: This final rule and interpretive
guidance is effective on June 18, 2024.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Sharyn Tejani, Associate Legal Counsel,
Office of Legal Counsel at 202–900–
8652 (voice), 1–800–669–6820 (TTY),
sharyn.tejani@eeoc.gov. Requests for
this final rule and interpretive guidance
in an alternative format should be made
to the Office of Communications and
Legislative Affairs at (202) 921–3191
(voice), 1–800–669–6820 (TTY), or 1–
844–234–5122 (ASL video phone).
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Introduction
The Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
(PWFA) 1 requires a covered entity to
provide reasonable accommodations to
a qualified employee’s or applicant’s
known limitations related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions, absent undue hardship on
the operation of the business of the
covered entity. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–3(a) directs the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC or Commission) to promulgate
regulations to implement the PWFA.
The Commission issued its notice of
proposed rulemaking (NPRM) on
August 11, 2023, and invited public
comment on this proposal from August
11, 2023, through October 10, 2023.2
1 Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Public
Law 117–328, Div. II, 136 Stat. 4459, 6084 (2022)
(codified at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg to 2000gg–6).
2 88 FR 54714–94 (proposed Aug. 11, 2023) (to be
codified at 29 CFR part 1636).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

General Information on Terms Used in
the Regulation and Interpretive
Guidance
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3)
uses the term ‘‘employee (including an
applicant)’’ in its definition of
‘‘employee.’’ Thus, throughout the
statute, this preamble, the final
regulation, and the Interpretive
Guidance, the term ‘‘employee’’ should
be understood to include ‘‘applicant’’
where relevant. Because the PWFA
relies on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 (Title VII), as amended by the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978
(PDA), 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq. for its
definition of ‘‘employee,’’ that term also
includes ‘‘former employee,’’ where
relevant.6
The PWFA defines ‘‘covered entity’’
using the definition of ‘‘employer’’ from
different statutes, including Title VII.7
Thus ‘‘covered entities’’ under the
PWFA include public and private
employers with 15 or more employees,
unions, employment agencies, and the
Federal Government.8 In this preamble,

the final regulation, and the Interpretive
Guidance, the Commission uses the
terms ‘‘covered entity’’ and the term
‘‘employer’’ interchangeably.
To track the language of the statute
more closely and improve readability,
the Commission made three global
changes from the proposed rule and
proposed appendix to the final rule and
Interpretive Guidance. First, the
Commission removed most instances of
the words ‘‘applicant’’ and ‘‘former
employee’’ from the regulation and the
Interpretive Guidance; based on the
statute and Title VII, the term
‘‘employee’’ covers ‘‘applicant’’ and
‘‘former employee’’ when relevant.
Second, the Commission replaced the
word ‘‘worker’’ with the word
‘‘employee’’ throughout the regulation
and the Interpretive Guidance. Third,
the Commission removed sections of the
proposed rule that pertained solely to
employees covered by the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 because the
Commission does not have authority to
regulate those employees (former
§§ 1636.2(c)(2) and 1636.5(b)).
The Interpretive Guidance contains
numerous examples to illustrate
provisions in the regulation. The
Commission received some comments
identifying instances where these
examples, in an effort to be simple and
short, oversimplified situations related
to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. For example, the
Commission used the term ‘‘bed rest’’ in
some examples; that is a colloquialism
for several actions that would be better
described as ‘‘rest and reduced
activity.’’ 9 The Commission agrees that
in a real situation, there may or may not
be more complexity and that describing
a restriction may require different or
more facts than are in an example.
However, the purpose of these examples
is to illustrate legal points, to suggest
practical actions for covered entities and
employees, and to encourage voluntary
compliance with the law. Thus, while

3 The vast majority of the comments were form
comments that were identical or slightly altered
versions of a few base form comments.
4 88 FR 54719.
5 Id.
6 Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346
(1997).
7 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(A), (B)(i), (B)(iii), (B)(iv).
The other statutes are the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 and 3 U.S.C. 411(c).
8 The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2) provides that
the term ‘‘covered entity’’ ‘‘has the meaning given
the term ‘respondent’’’ under 42 U.S.C. 2000e(n)
and includes employers as defined in 42 U.S.C.
2000e(b), 2000e–16c(a), and 2000e–16(a). The
statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) provides as a rule
of construction that ‘‘[t]his chapter is subject to the
applicability to religious employment set forth in
section 2000e–1(a) of this title [section 702(a) of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964].’’

9 Similarly, several examples discuss restrictions
on how much an employee can lift. The examples
in the Interpretive Guidance generally refer to these
restrictions as ‘‘lifting restrictions’’ with a specific
pound limit. In some situations, the determination
of such restrictions can depend on the frequency of
lifting, the height to which the object is lifted, the
body position of the person, and the distance
between the person and the object. See, e.g., Leslie
A. MacDonald et al., Clinical Guidelines for
Occupational Lifting in Pregnancy: Evidence
Summary and Provisional Recommendations, 209
a.m. J. Obstetrics & Gynecology 80–88 (2013),
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23467051/; U.S.
Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., Ctrs. for Disease
Control & Prevention, Nat’l Inst. for Occupational
Safety & Health, Provisional Recommended Weight
Limits for Lifting at Work During Pregnancy
(Infographic), https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/
repro/images/Lifting_guidelines_during_pregnancy_
-_NIOSH.jpg (last visited Mar. 18, 2024).

Members of the public submitted
approximately 98,600 comments to the
EEOC during this 60-day period. Several
of those comments were signed by
multiple individuals; thus, the total
number of comments was over 100,000.3
Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a), the
Commission is issuing this final
regulation and an appendix entitled
‘‘Appendix A to Part 1636—Interpretive
Guidance on the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act’’ (Interpretive Guidance).
As explained in the NPRM, the
Interpretive Guidance (a proposed
version of which was included in the
NPRM) will become part of 29 CFR part
1636.4 The Interpretive Guidance
represents the Commission’s
interpretation of the issues addressed
within it, and the Commission will be
guided by the regulation and the
Interpretive Guidance when enforcing
the PWFA.5

PO 00000

Frm 00002

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

the Commission has made some changes
to the examples in response to these
comments, it also has retained simple
language in many examples to allow for
ease of reading and to keep the focus of
the examples on the PWFA’s legal
interpretation. The Commission notes
that, depending on the facts in the
examples, the same facts could lead to
claims also being brought under other
statutes that the Commission enforces,
such as Title VII and the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), as
amended by the ADA Amendments Act
of 2008 (ADAAA or Amendments Act),
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.10 Moreover, the
situations in specific examples could
implicate other Federal laws, including,
but not limited to, the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended
(FMLA), 29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; the
Occupational Safety and Health Act of
1970, as amended (OSH Act), 29 U.S.C.
651 et seq.; and the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), 29 U.S.C.
201 et seq., as amended by the
Providing Urgent Maternal Protections
for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act),
Public Law 117–328, Div. KK, 136 Stat.
4459, 6093 (2022).11 Additionally,
although some examples state that the
described actions ‘‘would violate’’ the
PWFA, additional facts not described in
the examples could change that
determination.
Finally, the Commission notes that
the examples are illustrative. They do
not and are not intended to cover every
limitation or possible accommodation
under the PWFA.12
10 References to the ADA throughout the
preamble, the regulation, and the Interpretive
Guidance are intended to apply equally to the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as all nondiscrimination
standards under Title I of the ADA also apply to
Federal agencies under section 501 of the
Rehabilitation Act. See 29 U.S.C. 791(f).
11 To the extent that an accommodation in an
example is required under another law, like the
OSH Act, the example should not be read to suggest
that such a requirement is not applicable.
12 In the examples, the preamble, the regulation,
and the Interpretive Guidance, the Commission
uses the terms ‘‘leave’’ or ‘‘time off’’ and intends
those terms to cover leave however it is identified
by the specific employer. As stated in the proposed
rule, the Commission recognizes that different types
of employers use different terms for time away from
work, including leave, paid time off (PTO), time off,
sick time, vacation, and administrative leave,
among others. 88 FR 54715 n.19. Similarly, in the
examples, the preamble, the regulation and the
Interpretive Guidance, the Commission uses the
term ‘‘light duty.’’ The Commission recognizes that
‘‘light duty’’ programs, or other programs providing
modified duties, can vary depending on the covered
entity. As stated in the proposed rule, the
Commission intends ‘‘light duty’’ to include the
types of programs included in Questions 27 and 28
of the EEOC’s Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation and the ADA and any other policy,
practice, or system that a covered entity has for
accommodating employees, including when one or
more essential functions of a position are

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

1636.1

Purpose

The Commission made several minor
changes to the Purpose section of the
regulation to follow the language in the
statute more closely. Specifically, the
phrase ‘‘related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ was added after
‘‘known limitations’’ throughout this
paragraph, and the descriptions of the
retaliation and coercion provisions were
slightly modified.13
1636.2

Definitions—General

The Commission received numerous
comments regarding the proposed
general definitions. For example, many
comments encouraged the Commission
to clarify that restaurant workers are
covered by the PWFA. Several
comments also suggested the
Commission clarify that the
requirements for protection under the
FMLA (in terms of how long an
employee must work for an employer
and the number of hours) do not apply
under the PWFA and suggested the
Commission clarify that employees need
not work for an employer for any
specific period of time in order to be
covered by the PWFA.
The PWFA relies on definitions from
Title VII to describe when an employer
is covered and who is protected by the
law. Employers are covered by the
PWFA if they have 15 or more
employees, regardless of the industry.
Thus, restaurant workers who work for
restaurants with 15 or more employees
are covered. Because the PWFA’s
approach to coverage and protection
follows Title VII, rather than the FMLA,
employees are covered even if they have
not worked for a specific employer for
a specific length of time.
In the general definitions section of
the rule, the Commission added ‘‘or the
employee of a political subdivision of a
State’’ in § 1636.2(b)(3) and (c)(4) to
better describe the employees covered
by the Government Employee Rights Act
of 1991 (GERA), 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16c(a).
temporarily excused. EEOC, Enforcement Guidance:
Workers’ Compensation and the ADA (1996),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-workers-compensation-and-ada; 88 FR
54715 n.20.
13 For example, the phrase ‘‘Prohibits a covered
entity from retaliating’’ was replaced with
‘‘Prohibits discrimination’’ in the discussion of
retaliation, and the phrase ‘‘Prohibits a covered
entity from interfering with any individual’s rights’’
was replaced with ‘‘Prohibits coercion of
individuals in the exercise of their rights’’ in the
discussion of coercion.

PO 00000

Frm 00003

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

1636.3
PWFA

29097

Definitions—Specific to the

1636.3(a) Known Limitation
The rule reiterates the definition of
‘‘known limitation’’ from 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(4) and then provides definitions
for the operative terms.
1636.3(a)(1) Known
The Commission did not change the
definition of ‘‘known’’ from the
proposed rule. Under that definition a
limitation is ‘‘known’’ to a covered
entity if the employee, or the
employee’s representative, has
communicated the limitation to the
covered entity.
1636.3(a)(2) Limitation
The proposed rule restated the
definition of limitation from the statute
and added that the physical or mental
condition may be a modest or minor
and/or episodic impediment or
problem, that it included when an
employee affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
had a need or a problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of
the pregnancy, and that it included
when an employee affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions sought health care
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a
related medical condition itself.
The Commission received several
comments supporting the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ and suggesting that the
word ‘‘need’’ be added to the second
sentence (in addition to ‘‘impediment’’
or ‘‘problem’’) so that it would read:
‘‘Physical or mental condition is an
impediment, problem, or need that may
be modest, minor, and/or episodic.’’ The
Commission declines to make this
change because this sentence as it exists
(which uses the term ‘‘impediment’’ or
‘‘problem’’) is sufficiently broad, and
the third sentence of the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ covers when the employee
has a ‘‘need or a problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of
the pregnancy.’’
The Commission received a few
comments asserting that this definition
was too broad and that it should be
more restrictive. The Commission
disagrees. As discussed in the NPRM,
the PWFA was intended to cover all
types of limitations, including those that
are minor and those that are needed to
maintain the employee’s health or the
health of the pregnancy.14 Thus,
14 88 FR 54714–16 (discussing the purpose of the
PWFA, including that it helps workers with
uncomplicated pregnancies and minor limitations),
54719–20 (explaining that allowing employees to

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29098

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

creating a higher threshold would not be
in keeping with this rationale, would be
contrary to congressional intent, and
would impede a qualified employee’s
ability to stay on the job.
A handful of comments asked for
clarification as to whether the language
in the NPRM required employers to
provide reasonable accommodations to
an employee when an employee’s
partner, spouse, or family member—and
not the employee themselves—has a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. It does not. To respond to
these comments, the Commission has
included in the final rule’s definition of
‘‘limitation’’ that the limitation must be
of the specific employee in question.
This is essentially the same language
that was in the NPRM with regard to
related medical conditions in
§ 1636.3(b).15
The Commission has made one minor
change in the language of this provision
in the regulation. To track the language
of the statute in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4), the
Commission has changed the last
sentence of the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ regarding the ADA so that
it now mirrors the language in the
statute (‘‘whether or not such condition
meets the definition of disability’’).
In the Interpretive Guidance, the
Commission has added information in
section 1636.3(a)(2) Limitation calling
attention to the possible overlap
between the PWFA and the ADA and
noting that in these situations the
qualified employee may be entitled to
an accommodation under either statute,
as the protections of both may apply.
The Commission has added information
consistent with the changes in the
regulation described above to state that
the limitation must be of the specific
employee in question and that the
PWFA does not create a right to
reasonable accommodation based on an
individual’s association with someone
else with a PWFA-covered limitation or
provide accommodations for bonding or
childcare. To make the language in the
Interpretive Guidance consistent with
the regulation, the Commission has
modified language in the Interpretive
Guidance regarding accommodations for
health care to clarify that
accommodations may be needed to
attend health care appointments for a
seek health care related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
a related medical condition itself is consistent with
the ADA).
15 88 FR 54767 (providing that related medical
conditions are ‘‘as applied to the specific employee
or applicant in question’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

variety of reasons.16 Finally, the
Commission has modified language
from the proposed appendix regarding
the PWFA and the lack of a ‘‘severity’’
requirement to avoid giving the
mistaken impression that the ADA has
such a requirement.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Commission’s Proposed
Description of ‘‘Related to, Affected by,
or Arising Out of’’
Some comments supported the
Commission’s reading of the language
‘‘related to, affected by, or arising out
of,’’ stating that the Commission’s
reading was textually accurate in that
nothing in the statutory language
requires that the pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions be the sole
or original cause of the limitation. Other
comments stated that the language in
the NPRM explaining ‘‘related to,
affected by, or arising out of,’’ especially
when combined with the definition of
‘‘related medical conditions,’’ could
require accommodations for known
limitations caused by any physical or
mental condition that has any real,
perceived, or potential connection to—
or impact on—an individual’s
pregnancy, fertility, or reproductive
system. These comments asked the
Commission to alter the NPRM language
to counter this interpretation. Some
comments asked for additional
clarification regarding the language
‘‘related to, affected by, or arising out
of.’’
The PWFA uses the language ‘‘related
to, affected by, or arising out of’’ to
explain the connection between the
physical or mental condition and
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.17 As such, the
statute does not require that pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
be the sole, the original, or a substantial
reason for the physical or mental
16 The proposed appendix stated: ‘‘The definition
also includes when the worker is seeking health
care related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or a
related medical condition itself . . . and recognizes
that for pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions the proper course of care can include
regular appointments and monitoring by a health
care professional.’’ 88 FR 54773. The new language
in the Interpretive Guidance in section 1636.3(a)(2)
Limitation states: ‘‘Similarly, under the PWFA, an
employee may require a reasonable accommodation
of leave to attend health care appointments or
receive treatment for or recover from their
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’ The new language more accurately
reflects that accommodations are not limited to
‘‘regular appointments’’ or ‘‘monitoring,’’ which is
consistent with how leave for health care
appointments is described in the regulation and
elsewhere in the Interpretive Guidance.
17 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).

PO 00000

Frm 00004

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

condition, and the Commission does not
have the authority to change this term.
To help respond to these comments,
in the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(a)(2) under Related to, Affected
by, or Arising Out of, the Commission
has added that ‘‘related to, affected by,
or arising out of’’ are inclusive terms
and that a pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical condition does not need
to be the sole, the original, or a
substantial cause of the physical or
mental condition at issue for the
physical or mental condition to be
‘‘related to, affected by, or arising out
of’’ pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. This is in keeping
with the dictionary definition of
‘‘related to,’’ which is generally defined
as ‘‘connected with’’ or ‘‘about’’
something.18 It also is consistent with
the meaning of ‘‘affected by,’’ as the
dictionary definition of the word
‘‘affect’’ is ‘‘to cause,’’ ‘‘to produce,’’ or
‘‘to influence’’ something.19 Finally, it
aligns with the meaning of ‘‘arising out
of,’’ because the dictionary definition of
‘‘arise’’ includes ‘‘to begin to occur or
exist’’ or ‘‘to originate from a source.’’ 20
The Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(a)(2) under Related to, Affected
by, or Arising Out of further explains
that determining whether a physical or
mental condition is ‘‘related to, affected
by, or arising out of’’ pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
should typically be straightforward,
particularly in cases where an
individual is currently pregnant, is
experiencing childbirth, or has just
experienced childbirth. Pregnancy and
childbirth cause systemic changes that
not only create new physical and mental
conditions but also can exacerbate
preexisting conditions and can cause
additional pain or risk.21 Thus, a
connection between an employee’s
physical or mental condition and their
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions will be readily
ascertained when an employee is
currently pregnant or is experiencing or
has just experienced childbirth.
The Commission has maintained the
list of situations in the Interpretive
18 Relate To, Merriam-Webster.com, https://
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/
related%20to (last visited Mar. 9, 2024).
19 Affect, Merriam-Webster.com, https://
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/affect (last
visited Mar. 18, 2024).
20 Arise, Merriam-Webster.com, https://
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/arising (last
visited Mar. 14, 2024).
21 See, e.g., Danforth’s Obstetrics & Gynecology
286 (Ronald S. Gibbs et al. eds., 10th ed. 2008)
(‘‘Normal pregnancy entails many physiologic
changes . . . .’’); Clinical Anesthesia 1138 (Paul G.
Barash et al. eds., 6th ed. 2009) (‘‘During pregnancy,
there are major alterations in nearly every maternal
organ system.’’).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Guidance in section 1636.3(a)(2) under
Related to, Affected by, or Arising Out
of that show the connection between
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions and the limitation
with some minor changes.22 The
Interpretive Guidance also maintains
the discussion that some conditions
(like lifting restrictions) can occur
whether or not an employee is affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions and that the
Commission anticipates that confirming
that a physical or mental condition is
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions will usually be
straightforward and can be
accomplished through the interactive
process. The Commission has added
information to the Interpretive Guidance
explaining that there may be situations
where a physical or mental condition
may no longer be related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions, and that
in those situations, an employee may
seek an accommodation under the ADA.
The Commission also has added that
there may be situations where the
physical or mental condition
exacerbates an existing condition that is
a disability under the ADA, and in those
situations, an employee may be entitled
to an accommodation under either the
ADA or the PWFA.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(b) Pregnancy, Childbirth, or
Related Medical Conditions
The NPRM explained that the phrase
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ appears in Title
VII’s definition of ‘‘sex,’’ as amended in
1978 by the PDA.23 Because Congress
chose to write the PWFA using the same
phrase as in Title VII, as amended by
the PDA, and is presumed to have
known the meaning given that phrase by
the courts and the Commission for over
40 years, the Commission gave the
22 For example, in the proposed appendix, many
of the examples in this paragraph said that the
physical or mental condition was ‘‘related to’’
pregnancy. This has been changed to ‘‘related to,
affected by, or arising out of’’ to match the language
in the statute. The Commission has added that a
lifting restriction may be due to lower back pain
that may be exacerbated by physical changes
associated with pregnancy to connect the lifting
restriction to pregnancy in that example. The
Commission has added in this paragraph that: ‘‘A
lactating employee who seeks an accommodation to
take breaks to eat has a related medical condition
(lactation) and a physical condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of it (increased nutritional
needs),’’ in order to include an example about a
‘‘related medical condition.’’ The Commission has
changed the language in the proposed appendix
from ‘‘determining whether’’ to ‘‘confirming
whether,’’ where relevant, in order to match the
language used in § 1636.3(l)(2).
23 88 FR 54721.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ the same
meaning under the PWFA as under Title
VII.24 When Congress chooses to ‘‘use[ ]
the same language in two statutes
having similar purposes, . . . it is
appropriate to presume that Congress
intended that text to have the same
meaning in both statutes.’’ 25
The PWFA’s legislative history
supports the Commission’s reading of
the phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ to have the
same meaning as the phrase in Title VII.
The U.S. House of Representatives
Report accompanying the PWFA
recounts the legislative steps Congress
has taken to protect workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. In 1964, Congress
passed Title VII, which included
protection from discrimination based on
sex. In 1972, the EEOC interpreted the
prohibition on sex discrimination to
include pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.26 In 1976, the
24 See, e.g., Tex. Dep’t of Hous. & Cmty. Affs. v.
Inclusive Cmtys. Project, Inc., 576 U.S. 519, 536
(2015) (‘‘If a word or phrase has been . . . given a
uniform interpretation by inferior courts . . . , a
later version of that act perpetuating the wording
is presumed to carry forward that interpretation.’’)
(omissions in original) (quoting Antonin Scalia &
Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation
of Legal Texts 322 (2012)); Bragdon v. Abbott, 524
U.S. 624, 645 (1998) (‘‘When administrative and
judicial interpretations have settled the meaning of
an existing statutory provision, repetition of the
same language in a new statute indicates, as a
general matter, the intent to incorporate its
administrative and judicial interpretations as
well.’’); Lorillard v. Pons, 434 U.S. 575, 581 (1978)
(‘‘[W]here, as here, Congress adopts a new law
incorporating sections of a prior law, Congress
normally can be presumed to have had knowledge
of the interpretation given to the incorporated law,
at least insofar as it affects the new statute.’’); Hall
v. U.S. Dep’t of Agric., 984 F.3d 825, 840 (9th Cir.
2020) (‘‘Congress is presumed to be aware of an
agency’s interpretation of a statute. We most
commonly apply that presumption when an
agency’s interpretation of a statute has been
officially published and consistently followed. If
Congress thereafter reenacts the same language, we
conclude that it has adopted the agency’s
interpretation.’’) (internal citations and quotation
marks omitted); Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner,
Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 323
(2012) [hereinafter Scalia & Garner, Reading Law]
(‘‘[W]hen a statute uses the very same terminology
as an earlier statute—especially in the very same
field, such as securities law or civil-rights law—it
is reasonable to believe that the terminology bears
a consistent meaning.’’); H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.
1, at 11–17 (discussing the history of the passage
of the PDA; explaining that, due to court decisions,
the PDA did not fulfill its promise to protect
pregnant employees; and that the PWFA was
intended to rectify this problem and protect the
same employees covered by the PDA).
25 Smith v. City of Jackson, 544 U.S. 228, 233
(2005); see Northcross v. Bd. of Ed. of the Memphis
City Schs., 412 U.S. 427, 428 (1973) (per curiam)
(observing that ‘‘similarity of language’’ between
statutes is ‘‘a strong indication that the two statutes
should be interpreted pari passu’’).
26 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 12 (2021); 29
CFR 1604.10(b) (1972); 37 FR 6835, 6837 (1972)

PO 00000

Frm 00005

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29099

Supreme Court determined that
pregnancy discrimination was not
covered by Title VII.27 In 1978,
responding to that decision, Congress
passed the PDA ‘‘to codify the EEOC’s
original interpretation of Title VII.’’ 28
Courts’ subsequent interpretations of the
disparate treatment standard in the
PDA, however, left ‘‘[n]umerous [g]aps’’
in protections, and the Supreme Court’s
2015 decision in Young v. United Parcel
Service, Inc., 575 U.S. 206 (2015),
created a standard that did not
adequately protect the workers that the
PDA covered, according to the PWFA
House Report.29 The House concluded
that, ‘‘[t]o remedy the shortcomings of
the PDA, Congress must step in and
act.’’ 30 Congress’ discussion of the PDA
and identification of shortcomings in
the PDA as a reason for enacting the
PWFA show that in the PWFA, Congress
sought to protect the same workers who
are protected by the PDA. By using Title
VII’s longstanding definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ for the PWFA, the
Commission is following both the text of
the statute and its legislative history.
Comments Regarding Temporal
Proximity to a Current or Recent
Pregnancy
Some comments requested that the
Commission limit the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ under the PWFA to
situations that met their definition of
close temporal proximity to a current or
recent pregnancy. These comments also
(addressing Title VII coverage of ‘‘[d]isabilities
caused or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage,
abortion, childbirth, and recovery therefrom’’).
27 Gen. Elec. Co. v. Gilbert, 429 U.S. 125, 135–36
(1976).
28 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 13; see also H.R.
Rep. No. 95–948, at 2 (1978), as reprinted in 1978
U.S.C.C.A.N. 4749, 4750 (providing that the U.S.
House of Representatives’ version of the PDA ‘‘will
amend Title VII to clarify Congress’ intent to
include discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth or related medical conditions in the
prohibition against sex discrimination in
employment’’ and stating that the EEOC’s 1972
guidelines—which ‘‘state that excluding applicants
or employees from employment because of
pregnancy or related medical conditions is a
violation of Title VII’’ and ‘‘require employers to
treat disabilities caused or contributed to by
pregnancy, miscarriage, abortion, childbirth and
recovery therefrom as all other temporary
disabilities’’—‘‘rightly implemented the Title VII
prohibition of sex discrimination in the 1964 [Civil
Rights A]ct’’); S. Rep. No. 95–331, at 2 (1977)
(explaining that, in implementing Congress’ intent
in amending Title VII in 1972, the EEOC issued
guidelines that ‘‘made clear that excluding
applicants or employees from employment because
of pregnancy or related medical conditions was a
violation of [T]itle VII,’’ and ‘‘these guidelines
rightly implemented the Congress’ intent in barring
sex discrimination in the 1964 [Civil Rights A]ct’’).
29 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 14–16.
30 Id. at 17.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29100

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

noted that many of the conditions listed
in the NPRM as conditions that could
qualify as ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ also could
impact individuals who have never
been pregnant or could first arise years
before or after pregnancy. Relatedly,
several comments suggested that only
conditions related to a current or recent
pregnancy (which the comments
defined as one occurring 6 or fewer
months earlier) could be ‘‘related
medical conditions.’’
Response to Comments Regarding
Temporal Proximity to a Current or
Recent Pregnancy

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

The Commission declines to adopt the
changes suggested by these comments,
as they seek to create a definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ that is not
supported by Title VII case law or the
Commission’s Enforcement Guidance
on Pregnancy Discrimination and
Related Issues.31 Further, adopting such
a bright-line temporal rule would
improperly exclude many employees,
such as employees with postpartum
limitations, who may require
pregnancy-related accommodations.32
That said, ‘‘related medical conditions’’
must be related to the pregnancy or
childbirth of the specific employee in
question, and whether a specific
condition is related to pregnancy or
childbirth is a fact-specific
determination that will be guided by
existing Title VII precedent and prior
relevant Commission guidance.

31 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination and Related Issues, (I)(A) (2015)
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination], https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-pregnancydiscrimination-and-related-issues (providing that
the term ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ includes current pregnancy, past
pregnancy, potential or intended pregnancy, and
related medical conditions).
32 See, e.g., Am. Coll. of Obstetricians &
Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion No. 736, Optimizing
Postpartum Care (reaff’d 2021), https://
www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2018/05/optimizingpostpartum-care (discussing the importance of
postpartum health care, including treatment for
disorders arising during pregnancy and chronic
medical conditions); Susanna Trost et al., U.S. Dep’t
of Health & Hum. Servs., Ctrs. for Disease Control
& Prevention, Pregnancy-Related Deaths: Data from
Maternal Mortality Review Committees in 36 U.S.
States, 2017–2019 (2022), https://www.cdc.gov/
reproductivehealth/maternal-mortality/erase-mm/
data-mmrc.html (30% of pregnancy-related deaths
occurred one- and one-half months to one year
postpartum).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Comments Regarding the List of
Conditions Included in the Regulation
as Examples of ‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth,
or Related Medical Conditions’’
Multiple comments supported the
Commission’s definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ and supported the
inclusion of the list of numerous
possible ‘‘related medical conditions’’ in
the regulation. Comments argued that
the Commission’s reading of ‘‘related
medical conditions’’ best effectuates the
purpose and goals of the PWFA; is
consistent with longstanding law,
legislative history, agency
interpretation, medical understanding,
and common sense; and appropriately
supplements the protections currently
afforded under the PDA.
By contrast, several comments stated
that the language in the NPRM
explaining the term ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ could require
accommodations for any physical or
mental condition that has any real,
perceived, or potential connection to—
or impact on—an individual’s
pregnancy, fertility, or reproductive
system. These comments asked the
Commission to alter the language in the
proposed rule to counter this
interpretation.
Other comments stated that the broad,
non-exhaustive list of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ exceeded the Commission’s
delegated authority as intended by
Congress and that such a list would,
based on sex, improperly privilege
employees with gynecological
conditions, or disadvantage other
employees with analogous conditions,
and thus potentially illegally
discriminate under Title VII or the
Equal Protection Clause.
Response to Comments Regarding the
List of Conditions Included in the
Regulation as Examples of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’
Generally, the question of whether a
condition constitutes ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ in a particular case will be
fact-specific and guided by existing
Title VII precedent and relevant prior
Commission guidance. To assist in
making that determination, the
Commission made clarifying changes
and additions to the language in this
section of the regulation and has added
more information in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(b)
Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions.
First, the Commission removed the
phrase ‘‘relate to, are affected by, or

PO 00000

Frm 00006

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

arise out of’’ with regard to ‘‘related
medical conditions’’ in the proposed
§ 1636.3(b) in order to track the
language of the statute and reflect more
closely language in the Commission’s
prior enforcement guidance that
explains the extent of the PDA and the
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ 33 This
sentence now says ‘‘[r]elated medical
conditions are medical conditions
relating to the pregnancy or childbirth
of the specific employee in question.’’
Second, the Commission reorganized
the list of conditions in § 1636.3(b) to
follow more closely the organization of
the Commission’s Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination
explaining the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions,’’ so that the two resources
are consistent.34
Third, the Commission addressed
concerns raised in the comments that
conditions in the list of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ would ‘‘always’’ be ‘‘related
medical conditions’’ and thus
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of those conditions would
automatically be entitled to coverage
under the PWFA. The Commission
responded to these concerns and
requests by changing the language in
§ 1636.3(b) so that the list is now
explained as conditions that ‘‘are, or
may be,’’ ‘‘related medical conditions.’’
Fourth, the Commission added that
the pregnancy or childbirth must be ‘‘of
the specific employee in question.’’ This
language was already in the NPRM—in
that the NPRM made clear that related
medical conditions must be related to
the pregnancy or childbirth of the
specific employee in question—and has
been added to the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ as well.35
In the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(b) Pregnancy, Childbirth,
or Related Medical Conditions, the
Commission has added information
33 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 31, at
(I)(A)(4)(a) (‘‘[A]n employer may not discriminate
against a woman with a medical condition relating
to pregnancy or childbirth.’’).
34 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A).
35 Additionally, for consistency, the Commission
replaced ‘‘menstrual cycles’’ with ‘‘menstruation’’
because menstruation is the term used elsewhere in
the NPRM and also replaced ‘‘birth control’’ with
‘‘contraception’’ because that is the term used in
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination cited throughout the NPRM.
Compare 88 FR 54767 (listing ‘‘menstrual cycles’’
in the list of ‘‘related medical conditions’’), with 88
FR 54721, 54774 (explaining that the list in the
regulation for the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’ includes
‘‘menstruation’’); Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 31, at
(I)(A)(3).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
regarding the Commission’s expectation
that it will be readily apparent that
certain medical conditions (e.g.,
lactation, miscarriage, stillbirth, having
or choosing not to have an abortion,
preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, and
HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver
enzymes and low platelets syndrome))
have a relation to pregnancy or
childbirth; and that, similarly, a
connection between a medical condition
and pregnancy or childbirth will often
be evident when a new medical
condition occurs or an existing medical
condition is exacerbated or poses a new
risk during a current pregnancy,
childbirth, or postpartum period.
The Commission disagrees that
creating a list of potential ‘‘related
medical conditions’’ that are or may be
related to pregnancy or childbirth
exceeds the Commission’s authority.
The list includes related medical
conditions that courts and the
Commission, in its Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination,
have determined can, but are not always
required to be, related medical
conditions, as well as a non-exhaustive
list of other conditions that, depending
on the situation, can be related to
pregnancy or childbirth.36 The list
clearly states that it consists of examples
that ‘‘are or may be’’ related medical
conditions in a specific case. In each
case, a determination that a medical
condition is related to pregnancy or
childbirth is fact-specific and contingent
on whether the medical condition at
issue is related to the pregnancy or
childbirth of the specific employee in
question. The Commission notes that
regardless of whether pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
are at issue, the provision of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–5(a)(2) stating that nothing in
the PWFA shall be construed ‘‘by
regulation or otherwise, to require an
employer-sponsored health plan to pay
for or cover any particular item,
procedure, or treatment’’ applies.
The Commission also disagrees that
accommodations under the PWFA will
potentially discriminate based on sex.
The PWFA only provides
accommodations to qualified employees
with limitations related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. This is in
keeping with courts that have found that
laws and other policies that provide
leave for workers affected by pregnancy
do not discriminate based on sex.37
36 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31.
37 See Cal. Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass’n v. Guerra, 479
U.S. 272, 290 (1987) (holding that, without violating
Title VII, the State could require employers to

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Additionally, in Young v. United Parcel
Service,38 the Supreme Court found that
an employer could be required by the
PDA to provide an accommodation for
pregnant workers even if the employer’s
general policy did not provide for
accommodations for workers except in
certain situations. The accommodations
provided under the PWFA are similar in
purpose and effect to those that could
have been obtained in Young. And, just
as the accommodations contemplated by
the Court in Young did not violate Title
VII, neither do accommodations under
the PWFA.
Moreover, Congress expressly
intended that in some cases, the PWFA
would require accommodations for a
qualified employee’s limitations related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, even if such
accommodations are not available to
other employees. In fact, Congress
observed that the PDA’s comparator
requirement ‘‘is a burdensome and often
impossible standard to meet’’ and thus
is ‘‘insufficient to ensure that pregnant
workers receive the accommodations
they need.’’ 39
Comments and Response to Comments
Requesting Deletions, Additions, or
Other Modifications to the List of
Examples of ‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or
Related Medical Conditions’’
Many comments requested deletions,
additions, or other modifications to the
list of examples of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ provided in the proposed
definition at § 1636.3(b). The
Commission declines to modify the
provided list. As previously explained,
the list of examples of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ is non-exhaustive and
includes conditions that are
commonly—but not always—associated
with pregnancy or childbirth. The list
neither requires blanket accommodation
for every condition listed nor precludes
accommodations for conditions that are
not listed. Additionally, because
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ has the same
definition as in Title VII, as amended by
the PDA, this phrase’s use in the PWFA
provide up to four months of medical leave to
pregnant women where ‘‘[t]he statute is narrowly
drawn to cover only the period of actual physical
disability on account of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’) (emphasis in original);
Johnson v. Univ. of Iowa, 431 F.3d 325, 328 (8th
Cir. 2005) (‘‘If the leave given to biological mothers
is granted due to the physical trauma they sustain
giving birth, then it is conferred for a valid reason
wholly separate from gender.’’).
38 575 U.S. 206 (2015).
39 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 11–12.

PO 00000

Frm 00007

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29101

necessarily will continue to reflect Title
VII case law regarding that phrase.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Coverage of Specific
Conditions—Menstruation
A number of comments argued for or
against the inclusion of menstruation in
the list of ‘‘related medical conditions.’’
While the limited number of Federal
courts that have addressed the issue of
whether menstruation falls within the
Title VII definition of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ have not always held that it
does, read together, the majority of these
cases illustrate that, at a minimum,
menstruation is covered under Title VII
when it has a nexus to a current or prior
pregnancy or childbirth. Accordingly, as
with many conditions that can be
‘‘related medical conditions,’’ this
determination will be made on a caseby-case basis.40
40 See EEOC v. Houston Funding II, Ltd., 717 F.3d
425, 429–30 (5th Cir. 2013) (observing, in a case
about whether lactation was a ‘‘related medical
condition,’’ that ‘‘as both menstruation and
lactation are aspects of female physiology that are
affected by pregnancy, each seems readily to fit into
a reasonable definition of ‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’ ’’); Flores v. Va. Dep’t of
Corr., No. 5:20–CV–00087, 2021 WL 668802, at *4
(W.D. Va. Feb. 22, 2021) (declining to decide
whether heavy menstruation due to perimenopause
was a ‘‘related medical condition,’’ but observing
that ‘‘there is a strong argument that menstruation
is a ‘related medical condition’ to pregnancy and
childbirth under the PDA’’); but see Jirak v. Fed.
Express Corp., 805 F. Supp. 193, 195 (S.D.N.Y.
1992) (stating that menstrual cramps alone were not
a medical condition related to pregnancy or
childbirth); Coleman v. Bobby Dodd Inst., Inc., No.
4:17–CV–00029, 2017 WL 2486080, at *2 (M.D. Ga.
June 8, 2017) (stating that the employee’s excessive
menstruation was ‘‘related to pre-menopause, not
pregnancy or childbirth’’).
However, these and other cases suggest that, even
if menstruation (or another condition) is not found
to be ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ in a particular case, discrimination
based on that condition could nevertheless violate
Title VII’s prohibition on sex discrimination. See,
e.g., Harper v. Thiokol Chem. Corp., 619 F.2d 489,
492 (5th Cir. 1980) (concluding that a policy
requiring individuals returning from pregnancy
leave to have a normal menstrual cycle violated
Title VII because it denied ‘‘persons of like
qualifications equal employment opportunities
because of their sex,’’ as ‘‘company rules which
single out certain subclasses of women for disparate
treatment constitute unlawful sex discrimination’’);
Flores, 2021 WL 668802, at *4 (allowing a Title VII
claim to proceed ‘‘regardless of applying an
expanded definition of ‘because of sex’ or ‘on the
basis of sex’ under the PDA’’ where the plaintiff
was fired for suspicion of contraband due to her use
of tampons while menstruating); see also Int’l
Union, United Auto., Aerospace & Agric.
Implement Workers of Am., UAW v. Johnson
Controls, Inc., 499 U.S. 187, 198–99 (1991)
(providing that a policy excluding women with
childbearing capacity from certain jobs was
discrimination based on gender under Title VII; this
conclusion was ‘‘bolstered’’ by the PDA, which
prohibits discrimination ‘‘because of or on the basis
of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’); Phillips v. Martin Marietta Corp., 400
U.S. 542, 544 (1971) (per curiam) (opining that an

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29102

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Coverage of Specific
Conditions—Lactation
One comment claimed there was a
split between courts on the issue of
whether lactation falls within the scope
of the PDA, stating that some courts,
including the Fourth and Sixth Circuits,
found that it does not, while other
courts have found that it does. One case
cited by the comment, however, does
not address coverage of lactation as a
related medical condition under Title
VII. The case of Derungs v. Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc., 374 F.3d 428 (6th Cir.
2004), involved a question of whether a
store’s ban on public breastfeeding was
discriminatory under a State public
accommodation statute where that
statute did not include protection on the
basis of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ 41 Another
case cited by the comment, Barrash v.
Bowen, 846 F.2d 927 (4th Cir. 1988) (per
curiam), is similarly inapposite. In
Barrash, the Fourth Circuit held that a
Federal Government employee who
challenged her termination of
employment on grounds of
unauthorized absence as violative of her
constitutional and contractual rights
was not entitled to 6 months of leave in
order to breastfeed her baby. That
court’s statement, that ‘‘[u]nder the
[PDA] . . . , pregnancy and related
conditions must be treated as illnesses
only when incapacitating,’’ 42 was
subsequently recognized by the same
court as ‘‘dicta without any citation of
authority.’’ 43 By contrast, EEOC v.
Houston Funding II, Ltd., held that
lactation is a related medical condition
of pregnancy for purposes of the PDA
because it is the ‘‘physiological process
of secreting milk from mammary glands
and is directly caused by hormonal
changes associated with pregnancy and
childbirth’’ and is ‘‘a physiological
employer who refused to take applications from
women with preschool-age children but hired men
with preschool-age children and other women
would violate Title VII, absent a defense).
41 In its analysis, Derungs also discussed Title VII
coverage for breastfeeding under a comparator
analysis and found that breastfeeding would not be
covered because of an absence of comparators (i.e.,
men who could breastfeed). Derungs, 374 F.3d at
438–39. Independent of the soundness of that
analysis, the case did not address whether lactation
was or could be a ‘‘related medical condition’’ to
pregnancy and noted in its description of the Ohio
statute regarding employment that parallels Title
VII that ‘‘[t]he Legislature made a conscious choice
to extend the definition of discrimination to include
pregnancy even though there cannot be a class of
similarly situated males.’’ Id. at 436.
42 Barrash, 846 F.2d at 931.
43 Notter v. North Hand Protection, 89 F.3d 829,
at *5 (4th Cir. 1996) (per curiam) (table) (explaining
that ‘‘[t]he text of the [PDA] contains no
requirement that ‘related medical conditions’ be
‘incapacitating’ ’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

result of being pregnant and bearing a
child.’’ 44 Hicks v. City of Tuscaloosa
agrees with Houston Funding that
lactation is a related medical condition
and therefore covered under the PDA.45
Thus, Derungs and Barrash do not
foreclose a finding that lactation can be
a ‘‘related medical condition’’ under
Title VII and do not undercut the
Commission’s conclusion that lactation
can be a related medical condition
under the PWFA.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Coverage of Specific
Conditions—Infertility and Fertility
Treatments
Some comments agreed with the
Commission’s inclusion of infertility
and fertility treatments in the list of
covered conditions in the regulation. By
contrast, other comments stated that the
Title VII case law on infertility is
inconsistent and thus infertility and
fertility treatments should not be
included in the list of potentially
covered conditions in the regulation.
The Commission concludes that, as with
other conditions, and consistent with
case law and its prior policy, whether
infertility and fertility treatments are
covered by the PWFA will be based on
the particular circumstances of the
situation, thus potentially allowing for
reasonable accommodations for
treatment for infertility when an
employee with the capacity to become
pregnant is trying to get pregnant.
In Johnson Controls, the Supreme
Court struck down an employer policy
that discriminated between workers
based on childbearing capacity and held
that the PDA prohibits discrimination
based on potential pregnancy.46 In
accordance with Johnson Controls,
discrimination based on the potential to
be pregnant, not only current
pregnancy, is covered by Title VII and
the PDA. Because Title VII, as amended
by the PDA, can cover potential
pregnancy, several courts have found
that it protects against discrimination
for those undergoing in vitro
fertilization (IVF) or infertility
treatments related to becoming pregnant
because these actions are related to the
capacity to become pregnant.47 By
44 717 F.3d at 428.
45 870 F.3d 1253, 1259 (11th Cir. 2017).
46 499 U.S. at 204–06; see also Kocak v. Cmty.
Health Partners of Ohio, 400 F.3d 466, 470 (6th Cir.
2005) (reasoning that the plaintiff ‘‘cannot be
refused employment on the basis of her potential
pregnancy’’).
47 Hall v. Nalco Co., 534 F.3d 644, 649 (7th Cir.
2008) (finding an employer’s practice of terminating
employees who took leave for IVF treatment
violated the PDA because only women undergo
IVF); Erickson v. Bd. of Governors of State Colls. &
Univs., 911 F. Supp. 316, 320 (N.D. Ill. 1995)

PO 00000

Frm 00008

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

contrast, notably in the insurance
context where the challenged restriction
excluded all types of infertility
treatments from coverage, regardless of
the insured employee’s capacity to
become pregnant, courts have found
such policies did not violate the PDA.48
Those cases do not stand for the
proposition that fertility treatments are
never covered by the statutory phrase
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions,’’ but instead hold
that the particular claims in those cases
fail based on the lack of differential
treatment based on sex. The
Commission’s Enforcement Guidance
on Pregnancy Discrimination
summarizes the law in this regard:
Employment decisions related to infertility
treatments implicate Title VII under limited
circumstances. Because surgical
impregnation is intrinsically tied to a
woman’s childbearing capacity, an inference
of unlawful sex discrimination may be raised
if, for example, an employee is penalized for
taking time off from work to undergo such a
procedure. In contrast, with respect to the
exclusion of infertility from employerprovided health insurance, courts have
generally held that exclusions of all
infertility coverage for all employees is
gender neutral and does not violate Title VII.
Title VII may be implicated by exclusions of
particular treatments that apply only to one
gender.49

Thus, depending upon the facts of the
case, including whether the infertility
treatments are sought by an employee
with the capacity to become pregnant
(finding that a plaintiff who underwent infertility
treatment, ‘‘although infertile, may have been
viewed by her employer as potentially pregnant,’’
and distinguishing between ‘‘infertility [that] does
not relate to [the] capacity to become pregnant’’ and
that which does relate to the capacity to become
pregnant); Pacourek v. Inland Steel Co., 858 F.
Supp. 1393, 1397, 1403–04 (N.D. Ill. 1994) (finding
that infertility or its treatment were conditions that
fell under the umbrella of pregnancy (including
potential pregnancy), childbirth, or related medical
conditions).
48 Saks v. Franklin Covey, Inc., 316 F.3d 337, 346
(2d Cir. 2003) (finding that generally, ‘‘[i]nfertility
is a medical condition that afflicts men and women
with equal frequency,’’ but leaving open the
question of whether an individual ‘‘would be able
to state a claim under the PDA or Title VII for
adverse employment action taken against her
because she has taken numerous sick days in order
to undergo surgical implantation procedures’’);
Krauel v. Iowa Methodist Med. Ctr., 95 F.3d 674,
679–680 (8th Cir. 1996) (finding the benefits policy
at issue did not violate Title VII, reasoning that ‘‘the
policy of denying insurance benefits for treatment
of fertility problems applies to both female and
male workers and thus is gender-neutral’’),
abrogated on other grounds by Bragdon v. Abbott,
524 U.S. 624 (1998). Notably, because of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–5(a)(2), nothing in the PWFA can require an
employer-sponsored health plan to pay for or cover
any particular item, procedure, or treatment. Thus,
PWFA accommodation claims will not involve
coverage by health care plans.
49 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A)(3)(c)
(footnotes omitted).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
for the purpose of becoming pregnant,
accommodations for an employee due to
physical or mental conditions related to,
affected by, or arising out of infertility
or fertility treatments may be provided
under the PWFA, absent undue
hardship.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Coverage of Specific
Conditions—Contraception

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Some comments agreed with the
Commission’s inclusion of
contraception in the regulation. By
contrast, some comments stated that the
Commission had not properly
interpreted Federal case law related to
the coverage of contraception and that
the Eighth Circuit’s holding in In re
Union Pacific Railroad Employment
Practices Litigation 50 forecloses
accommodations related to
contraception under all circumstances.
The Commission disagrees that
reasonable accommodations regarding
contraception for an employee who has
the capacity to become pregnant are
foreclosed in all cases by In re Union
Pacific. As stated above, the Supreme
Court has held that Title VII ‘‘prohibit[s]
an employer from discriminating against
a woman because of her capacity to
become pregnant.’’ 51 Consistent with
this holding, the Eighth Circuit and
other courts, like the Commission, have
long recognized that the protections of
Title VII extend to employees based on
the employees’ potential or intent to
become pregnant.52
50 479 F.3d 936, 939, 942 (8th Cir. 2007)
(concluding that Union Pacific’s insurance policy—
which excluded ‘‘all types of contraception,
whether prescription, non-prescription or surgical
and whether for men or women’’—did not
discriminate against women and therefore did not
violate the PDA and distinguishing Johnson
Controls on the ground that, unlike ‘‘potential
pregnancy,’’ ‘‘contraception is not a gender-specific
term’’).
51 Johnson Controls, 499 U.S. at 206.
52 See Walsh v. Nat’l Computer Sys., Inc., 332
F.3d 1150, 1154, 1160 (8th Cir. 2003) (upholding a
judgment and award for a plaintiff claiming
pregnancy discrimination where the plaintiff
provided evidence that her supervisor’s
discriminatory behavior was based on the
supervisor’s belief that she was, or was intending
to become, pregnant a second time); see also Kocak,
400 F.3d at 470 (reasoning that the plaintiff ‘‘cannot
be refused employment on the basis of her potential
pregnancy’’); Batchelor v. Merck & Co., 651 F. Supp.
2d 818, 830–31 (N.D. Ind. 2008) (holding that the
plaintiff was protected under the PDA where her
supervisor allegedly discriminated against her
because of her stated intention to start a family);
Cleese v. Hewlett-Packard Co., 911 F. Supp. 1312,
1317–18 (D. Or. 1995) (concluding that the plaintiff,
who claimed that the defendant employer
discriminated against her because it knew she
planned to become pregnant, fell within the PDA’s
protections and noting that the court agreed with
‘‘Pacourek that the purpose of the PDA is best
served by extending its coverage to women who are
trying to become pregnant’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

As stated in the Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination,
interpreting In re Union Pacific as
holding that contraception is never
related to pregnancy for purposes of the
PDA because it is used prior to
pregnancy would be inconsistent with
Johnson Controls and many other cases.
In the Commission’s view, In re Union
Pacific is best understood as a case
about a specific health insurance policy
that excluded coverage of both
prescription and non-prescription
contraceptive methods that were used to
prevent pregnancy, regardless of the sex
of the employee who used them.53 The
gender-neutral nature of the insurance
exclusion was central to In re Union
Pacific’s holding that the insurance
policy did not constitute disparate
treatment under Title VII. This is similar
to the reasoning of courts that have
found that denial of insurance coverage
for infertility generally, which can affect
employees regardless of their capacity to
become pregnant, does not violate the
PDA, while still leaving open the
possibility that the PDA could be
violated if an employee was penalized
for using leave for IVF treatments.54 As
with infertility, the failure of particular
Title VII claims related to contraception
based on the lack of gender-based
differential treatment does not mean
that contraception can never be covered
53 See also Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry
Dock Co. v. EEOC, 462 U.S. 669, 678–79 & n.17,
683–84 (1983) (noting that the legislative history of
the PDA demonstrates Congress’ intent that it
would be facially discriminatory for an employer to
discriminate in insurance coverage between persons
who face a risk of pregnancy and those who do not,
and concluding that the employer unlawfully gave
married male employees a benefit package for their
dependents that was less inclusive than the
dependency coverage provided to married female
employees). In Newport News, the Court found that
the benefits that a male employee and his
dependents could receive were less than what a
female employee and her dependents could receive,
and thus the plan violated the PDA. This rationale
further explains the decisions in In re Union Pacific
and Krauel. In those cases, both of which involved
insurance benefits, the benefits received by
employees and their dependents were the same;
thus, there was not a PDA violation. See Saks, 316
F.3d at 344–345 (describing Newport News as
‘‘focused on whether male and female employees
received equal coverage under their health benefits
package’’ and finding that Newport News would not
allow exclusions based on pregnancy); id. at 345 n.2
(describing the decision in Saks as looking at
‘‘whether the exclusion of surgical impregnation
procedures result in [a] less comprehensive benefits
package for female employees’’).
54 See Saks, 316 F.3d at 346 & n.4 (concluding
that the insurance coverage plan at issue, which did
not cover treatments for infertility regardless of
capacity to become pregnant, would not violate the
PDA, but stating that ‘‘[w]e expressly decline to
consider whether an infertile female employee
would be able to state a claim under the PDA or
Title VII for adverse employment action taken
against her because she has taken numerous sick
days in order to undergo surgical impregnation
procedures’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00009

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29103

by the statutory phrase ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’
As stated in the Commission Decision
on Coverage of Contraception, the PDA
can cover discrimination regarding
contraception when, unlike the facts in
In re Union Pacific, the challenged
restriction regarding contraception
coverage is limited to those who have
the capacity to become pregnant.55
Thus, in the Commission Decision on
Coverage of Contraception, the
exclusion of prescription contraception
violated the PDA’s prohibition on sex
discrimination because prescription
contraception could only be used by
those who have the capacity to become
pregnant.56 Other courts similarly have
concluded that an insurance policy’s
exclusion of contraception coverage that
only can be used by those with the
capacity to become pregnant violates the
PDA.57
55 EEOC, Commission Decision on Coverage of
Contraception (Dec. 14, 2000), https://
www.eeoc.gov/commission-decision-coveragecontraception.
56 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A)(3)(d) nn.37–
38.
57 See Cooley v. DaimlerChrysler Corp., 281 F.
Supp. 2d 979, 984–85 (E.D. Mo. 2003) (determining
that, although the defendant employer’s policy was
facially neutral, denying a prescription medication
that allows an employee to control their potential
to become pregnant is ‘‘necessarily a sex-based
exclusion’’ that violates Title VII, as amended by
the PDA, because only people who have the
capacity to become pregnant use prescription
contraceptives, and the exclusion of prescription
contraceptives may treat medication needed for a
sex-specific condition less favorably than
medication necessary for other medical conditions);
Erickson v. Bartell Drug Co., 141 F. Supp. 2d 1266,
1271–72 (W.D. Wash. 2001) (determining that the
selective exclusion of prescription contraceptives
from an employer’s generally comprehensive
prescription drug plan violated the PDA because
only people who have the capacity to become
pregnant use prescription contraceptives).
Additionally, the Commission notes that those who
can and cannot get pregnant face different risks in
not having access to contraception in that the
individual who may actually become pregnant
bears the exclusive risk of experiencing pregnancyrelated complications, including a variety of lifethreatening conditions. U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum.
Servs., Ctrs. for Disease Control & Prevention,
Urgent Maternal Warning Signs (Nov. 17, 2022),
https://www.cdc.gov/hearher/maternal-warningsigns/index.html (explaining urgent warning signs
and symptoms ‘‘during pregnancy and in the year
after delivery’’ that ‘‘could indicate a life-threating
situation’’); U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs.,
Ctrs. for Disease Control & Prevention, Maternal
Mortality Rates in the United States, 2021 (March
2023), https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/hestat/
maternal-mortality/2021/maternal-mortality-rates2021.htm (discussing the high rates of maternal
mortality); Am. Coll. of Obstetricians &
Gynecologists and Physicians for Reproductive
Health, Abortion Can Be Medically Necessary (Joint
Statement) (Sept. 25, 2019), https://www.acog.org/
news/news-releases/2019/09/abortion-can-bemedically-necessary (‘‘Pregnancy imposes
significant physiological changes on a person’s

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29104

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Finally, Congress chose to write the
PWFA using the same phrase as in Title
VII, as amended by the PDA, and
directed the Commission to issue
regulations. Congress is presumed to
have known the meaning previously
given to ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ by courts
and the Commission, as well as the
established principles of statutory
construction.58 This includes the
Commission’s interpretation in its 2000
Commission Decision on Coverage of
Contraception and in its 2015
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination. Therefore, it is
reasonable to conclude that Congress
expected the Commission to interpret
the language in the PWFA consistently
with its interpretation of the same
language in the PDA.
Thus, under the PWFA, depending on
the facts, a limitation related to
contraception that affects the individual
employee’s potential pregnancy can be
the basis for a request for an
accommodation.59 Whether a particular
set of facts will support the necessary
nexus between contraception and an
individual employee’s potential
pregnancy is a determination that will
be made on a case-by-case basis.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Coverage of Specific
Conditions—Other Conditions

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Some comments requested that
specific conditions be added to the list
in the regulation. However, inclusion on
the list does not make it more or less
likely that a specific condition in a
specific situation will be considered
pregnancy, childbirth or a related
medical condition—it is a fact-specific
determination. Some comments
requested that the Commission opine on
whether specific conditions (including
ones on which neither the courts nor the
Commission have yet opined) would be
covered under ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ under the PWFA.
Especially in the situations where the
courts and the Commission have not yet
spoken, the Commission believes that
this is something best left to
development on a case-by-case basis
within specific factual contexts.
body. These changes can exacerbate underlying or
preexisting conditions, like renal or cardiac disease,
and can severely compromise health or even cause
death.’’).
58 See supra note 24.
59 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 27
(‘‘Throughout the bill’s text, the PWFA ensures that
workers have access to reasonable accommodations
for conditions connected with a pregnancy, not just
a pregnancy itself.’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Inclusion of Abortion in the Definition
of ‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’
Preliminary Considerations
The Commission received
approximately 54,000 comments (most
of which were form or slightly altered
form comments from individuals)
urging the Commission to exclude
abortion from the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’ The Commission
also received approximately 40,000
comments (most of which were form or
slightly altered form comments from
individuals or sign-on letters)
supporting the inclusion of abortion in
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions.’’ 60
Many of the comments urging the
Commission to exclude abortion from
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’
expressed the view that abortion is the
destruction of a human life, that it is
objectionable for moral or religious
reasons, and that it is not health care.61
The Commission recognizes these are
sincere, deeply held convictions and are
often part of an individual’s religious
beliefs. The Commission also received
many comments that expressed deeply
held beliefs, including religious beliefs,
that abortion is a necessary part of
health care and that an employer’s
religious beliefs should not dictate an
employee’s ability to receive a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA.
In the final regulation, the
Commission includes abortion in its
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions,’’ as
proposed in the NPRM and consistent
with the Commission’s and courts’
longstanding interpretation of the same
phrase in Title VII. The Commission
60 The number of comments does not require the
EEOC to adopt a specific view. U.S. Cellular Corp.
vs. FCC, 254 F.3d 78,87 (D.C. Cir. 2001) (‘‘[T]he
Commission has no obligation to take the approach
advocated by the largest number of commenters
. . . ; indeed, the Commission may adopt a course
endorsed by no commenter. The Commission’s only
responsibilities are to respond to comments, 5
U.S.C. 553, and to choose a reasonable approach
backed up by record evidence.’’) (internal citations
omitted).
61 Some comments also expressed religious and
conscience objections to other conditions included
in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions,’’ such as infertility
treatments and contraception. The Commission has
addressed these other issues, supra, in the preamble
in section 1636.3(b) Pregnancy, Childbirth, or
Related Medical Conditions. Responses to
comments that object to these procedures for
religious reasons are addressed infra in the
preamble in section 1636.7(b) Rule of Construction
and in the preamble in section 1636.7 under
Religious Freedom Restoration Act.

PO 00000

Frm 00010

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

responds to comments regarding this
issue below. Preliminarily, the
Commission provides the following
context to clarify the limits of the
PWFA.
First, the PWFA is a workplace antidiscrimination law. It does not regulate
the provision of abortion services or
affect whether and under what
circumstances an abortion should be
permitted. The PWFA does not require
any employee to have—or not to have—
an abortion, does not require taxpayers
to pay for any abortions, and does not
compel health care providers to provide
any abortions. The PWFA also cannot be
used to require an employer-sponsored
health plan to pay for or cover any
particular item, procedure, or treatment,
including an abortion.62 The PWFA
does not require reasonable
accommodations that would cause an
employer to pay any travel-related
expenses for an employee to obtain an
abortion.63 Given these limitations, the
type of accommodation that most likely
will be sought under the PWFA
regarding an abortion is time off to
attend a medical appointment or for
recovery. The PWFA, like the ADA,
does not require that leave as an
accommodation be paid leave, so leave
will be unpaid unless the employer’s
policies provide otherwise.64
Second, the PWFA provides a
mechanism for a qualified employee
with a known limitation related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to receive workplace accommodations.
The term ‘‘abortion’’ is included in the
regulation’s definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ for the limited purpose of
determining whether an employee
qualifies for a workplace
accommodation under the PWFA. As
shown in the public comments, beliefs
about when an abortion may be morally
or religiously permissible, even within
religious traditions, are not monolithic.
Third, despite the large number of
comments that the Commission
received, the Commission’s historical
experience, in more than four decades
of enforcing Title VII, is that very few
employers have actually faced a
situation where an employee is
expressly requesting leave for an
62 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2) provides that nothing
in the PWFA shall be construed ‘‘by regulation or
otherwise, to require an employer-sponsored health
plan to pay for or cover any particular item,
procedure, or treatment.’’
63 The PWFA does not prohibit an employer from
taking these actions, either.
64 See infra in the preamble in section 1636.3(h)
under Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

abortion and the employer declines to
grant the leave on religious or moral
grounds. Since 1978, Title VII has
required that employers who provide
sick leave provide that leave in a nondiscriminatory manner to women
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. This
includes, and has included since 1978,
allowing employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to use employerprovided leave in order to have time off
to have an abortion.65 Yet the public
comments the Commission received did
not cite any Title VII cases that ruled
against the employer where a request for
leave for an abortion was at issue, and
the comments did not provide evidence
that the Title VII requirement has
caused problems for employers in the
past. Nonetheless, under the framework
of this final rule, accommodations
related to abortion—like all
accommodations—remain subject to
applicable exceptions and defenses,
including both those based on religion
and undue hardship.
With this background, the
Commission responds to the comments
it received.
65 See 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k); 124 Cong. Rec. S18,978
(daily ed. Oct. 13, 1978) (statement of Sen. Harrison
A. Williams, Jr.) (‘‘The House-passed bill included
a provision which would have excluded health
insurance benefits, sick leave benefits, and
disability leave benefits for abortions altogether,
except where the life of the mother would be
endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in
case of complications. The legislation which passed
this body included no such provision. After lengthy
debate, and discussion of this difficult issue, the
conferees have adopted a compromise which
requires the provision of sick leave and disability
benefits in connection with an abortion on the same
basis as for any other illness or disabling
condition.’’); see also H.R. Rep. No. 95–1786, at 3–
4 (Conf. Rep.) (explaining the differences between
the Senate bill, the House amendment, and the
substitute agreed to in conference).
Since 1979, the Commission’s guidelines have
provided that ‘‘[a]ll fringe benefits other than health
insurance, such as sick leave, which are provided
for other medical conditions, must be provided for
abortions.’’ 29 CFR part 1604, appendix, Question
35 (1979). This has been the EEOC’s consistent
interpretation for over 40 years.
In 2015, the EEOC reaffirmed that ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’ includes
abortions. Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A)(4)(c); see,
e.g., Doe v. C.A.R.S. Prot. Plus, Inc., 527 F.3d 358,
364 (3d Cir. 2008) (‘‘Clearly, the plain language of
the statute, together with the legislative history and
the EEOC guidelines, support a conclusion that an
employer may not discriminate against a woman
employee because she has exercised her right to
have an abortion. We now hold that the term
‘related medical conditions’ includes an abortion.’’);
DeJesus v. Fla. Cent. Credit Union, No. 8:17–CV–
2502, 2018 WL 4931817, at *1 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 11,
2018) (denying the employer’s motion to dismiss in
a Title VII case where an employee used approved
leave to have an abortion and was fired shortly
thereafter when her supervisor stated that the
abortion was not an appropriate excuse for her
absence).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Interpretation of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ as Consistent With Its
Meaning in Title VII
Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ as Reflected in Statutory
Text
Comments regarding the
Commission’s decision to include
‘‘abortion’’ in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ made several
arguments related to the statutory text of
the PWFA and Title VII.
Many comments in favor of the
Commission’s inclusion of abortion in
the proposed definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ asserted that its inclusion
accurately reflects the statutory text of
the PWFA; that the phrase ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ is taken directly from Title
VII and uses identical language; that the
identical language in the PWFA and
Title VII must be interpreted
consistently; that Congress’ drafting the
PWFA against the backdrop of Title VII
strongly suggests that its use of Title
VII’s language would require the
language to have the same meaning in
the PWFA, absent a clear indication to
the contrary; and that in enacting the
PDA, Congress expressly stated that the
statute applied to employees who
obtained abortions, confirming its
statutory intent to prohibit
discrimination against employees for
obtaining abortion care, and that
Congress’ use of the term in the PWFA
is consistent with that underlying
interpretation.
Other comments favoring the
Commission’s inclusion of abortion in
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ stated
that its inclusion is important for
consistency and clarity, noting that both
employers and employees have relied
on the Commission’s longstanding
inclusion of this interpretation in
guidance to understand what constitutes
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’; that applying the
same definition under the PWFA
provides important consistency when
litigation is brought under Title VII and
the PWFA simultaneously; and that the
PWFA’s drafters intentionally drew
specific terms from Title VII and the
ADA to ensure employees and
employers would have a clear
understanding of the meaning of those
terms.
By contrast, many comments
opposing the Commission’s proposed

PO 00000

Frm 00011

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29105

definition stated that abortion could not
be included in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ because the
PWFA’s text does not mention abortion;
that Congress’ intent to include abortion
in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ cannot be inferred simply
because the PWFA uses the same
language as Title VII; that the PWFA
does not direct the Commission to
construct a broad definition of ‘‘related
medical conditions’’; and that the
inclusion of ‘‘pregnant workers’’ in the
statute’s title should exclude employees
who end their pregnancies via an
abortion. Comments also stated that,
under canons of statutory interpretation,
the general term ‘‘or related medical
conditions’’ is best read to cover only
those concepts akin to the specific terms
it follows—and that abortion is not
related to ‘‘pregnancy’’ or ‘‘childbirth.’’
Comments opposed to the
Commission’s inclusion of abortion in
the proposed definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ also asserted that under the
text of the PWFA, employers should be
required only to accommodate
employees who are currently pregnant
or who give birth. For instance,
comments asserting that under the
PWFA a ‘‘related medical condition’’
must be related to a current or recent
pregnancy or childbirth analogized the
PWFA’s accommodation provision to
the accommodation provisions under
Title VII and the ADA, which apply
when an employee has a sincerely held
religious belief or practice, or a
disability, respectively.
Comments also asserted that abortion
is the opposite of pregnancy and
childbirth. For instance, comments
stated that an abortion is unlike
pregnancy because it is a procedure that
ends a pregnancy and the possibility of
childbirth from that pregnancy; and that
pregnancy is not a medical condition to
be treated with an abortion.
Comments opposed to the
Commission’s inclusion of abortion in
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ also
maintained that ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ should be construed
narrowly under the PWFA. For instance,
some comments stated that Congress’
inclusion of the term ‘‘childbirth’’
meant that abortion could not be
included in the regulation; that a broad
definition of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ would render the term
‘‘childbirth’’ superfluous; and that the
PWFA’s definition should only refer to
involuntary, detrimental impacts of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29106

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

medical conditions. Comments stated
that, in including contraception and
abortion, the Commission’s definition
goes beyond medical conditions to
cover medical interventions; these
comments argued, for example, that the
act of obtaining reproductive health
care—including contraception and
abortion—is not, by definition, a
medical, physical, or mental condition,
and thus it cannot be a PWFA
limitation.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ as Reflected in
Statutory Text
The Commission agrees with
comments expressing support for
inclusion of abortion in the proposed
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ for which a
qualified employee could receive an
accommodation, absent undue
hardship.
In interpreting a statute, an agency
must start with its text. The PWFA does
not define the phrase ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’ For nearly 45 years,
however, consistent with the plain
language of the statute, congressional
intent, and Federal courts’
interpretation of the statutory text, the
Commission has interpreted
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ in Title VII to
include the decision to have—or not to
have—an abortion and to prohibit
discrimination in employment practices
because an employee had or did not
have an abortion.66 Based on wellestablished rules of statutory
interpretation, the Commission properly
interprets ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ to have the
same meaning in the PWFA as it does
under Title VII.67 As the Supreme Court
66 See 29 CFR part 1604, appendix, Questions 34
& 35 (1979); see also Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 31, at
(I)(A)(4)(c).
67 These rules include: (1) the Prior-Construction
Canon, which states that when judicial
interpretations have settled the meaning of an
existing statutory provision, repetition of the same
language in a new statute is presumed to
incorporate that interpretation; Tex. Dep’t of Hous.
& Cmty. Affs., 576 U.S. at 536–37 (‘‘If a word or
phrase has been . . . given a uniform interpretation
by inferior courts . . ., a later version of that act
perpetuating the wording is presumed to carry
forward that interpretation.’’) (omissions in
original) (quoting Scalia & Garner, Reading Law, at
322); Lorillard, 434 U.S. at 581 (‘‘[W]here, as here,
Congress adopts a new law incorporating sections
of a prior law, Congress normally can be presumed
to have had knowledge of the interpretation given
to the incorporated law, at least insofar as it affects
the new statute.’’); Hall v. U.S. Dep’t of Agric., 984
F.3d at 840 (‘‘Congress is presumed to be aware of

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

has stated, ‘‘When administrative and
judicial interpretations have settled the
meaning of an existing statutory
provision, repetition of the same
language in a new statute indicates, as
a general matter, the intent to
incorporate its administrative and
judicial interpretations as well.’’ 68 The
Commission concludes that it would not
be consistent with Congress’ intent, as
expressed in its choice of this statutory
language for the PWFA, to construct a
broader or narrower definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ than under Title
VII. Rather, following the canons of
statutory interpretation, the Commission
is using the definition that already
exists for this identical phrase under
Title VII. Indeed, it is likely that
defining this phrase differently than it
has been defined in a parallel statute
would exceed the Commission’s
congressionally delegated authority.
As set out in the NPRM, Congress
previously used the phrase ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ when, in enacting the PDA,
it amended Title VII to explicitly state
that Title VII’s prohibition against sex
discrimination includes a prohibition
against discrimination on the basis of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’ 69 The legislative
history of the PDA expressly stated that
the PDA’s protections applied to
situations involving abortions, and
indeed, the statutory text enacted by
an agency’s interpretation of a statute. We most
commonly apply that presumption when an
agency’s interpretation of a statute has been
officially published and consistently followed. If
Congress thereafter reenacts the same language, we
conclude that it has adopted the agency’s
interpretation.’’) (internal citations and quotation
marks omitted); Scalia & Garner, Reading Law at
323 (‘‘[W]hen a statute uses the very same
terminology as an earlier statute—especially in the
very same field, such as securities law or civilrights law—it is reasonable to believe that the
terminology bears a consistent meaning.’’); (2) the
Related Statutes Canon (In Pari Materia), which
states that courts do not interpret statutes in
isolation, but rather in the context of the body of
law of which they are a part, including laterenacted statutes, so statutes addressing the same
subject matter generally should be read as if they
were one law; see, e.g., Wachovia Bank v. Schmidt,
546 U.S. 303, 305 (2006); (‘‘[U]nder the in pari
materia canon, statutes addressing the same subject
matter generally should be read as if they were one
law . . . .’’) (internal citations and quotation marks
omitted); and (3) the Presumption of Legislative
Acquiescence Canon, which states that statutes
adopted after certain prior judicial or administrative
interpretations may acquiesce in those
interpretations; see, e.g., Johnson v. Transp.
Agency, Santa Clara Cnty., 480 U.S. 616, 629 n.7
(1987) (‘‘Congress has not amended the statute to
reject [the Court’s] construction [of Title VII], nor
have any such amendments even been proposed,
and we therefore may assume that our
interpretation was correct.’’).
68 Bragdon, 524 U.S. at 645.
69 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

PO 00000

Frm 00012

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Congress explicitly excluded certain
abortion procedures from health
insurance requirements, since the
statute would otherwise have been read
to require their coverage, while still
requiring coverage in certain limited
circumstances.70
Congress’ express purpose in enacting
the PWFA was to supplement Title VII’s
protections for qualified employees
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; in other
words, the same employees protected by
Title VII, as amended by the PDA.71 To
that end, Congress’ approach in both
laws was to ensure that employers are
not required to pay for abortions for
their employees but that employees are
not discriminated against in the
workplace for having them. Further, the
Commission agrees with the comments
that using the same definition that the
Commission and courts have used for
the same phrase in Title VII provides
important clarity and consistency for
employers and employees.
Using the same definition also
provides clarity and consistency for
courts and harmonizes the two statutory
schemes. Title VII and the PWFA cover
the same employers and employees.
Having two definitions of the same term
would cause confusion for courts and
potentially require them to reach
conflicting decisions. Moreover, as cases
under the PWFA may, depending on the
circumstances, also be brought under
Title VII, courts could be asked to
decide cases involving both Title VII’s
prohibition of discrimination based on
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ and the PWFA’s
reasonable accommodation provision.
Even if the Commission were
authorized to ignore the courts’ and its
own prior longstanding, consistent
interpretation of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions,’’ the
Commission would reach the same
conclusion that the 1978 Congress did—
that the phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ includes
choosing to have or not to have an
abortion, based on the plain meaning of
the phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ By
definition, individuals who are
choosing whether or not to have an
abortion are pregnant. And the
70 See id. (‘‘This subsection shall not require an
employer to pay for health insurance benefits for
abortion, except where the life of the mother would
be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or
except where medical complications have arisen
from an abortion . . . .’’); H.R. Rep. No. 95–1786,
at 4 (1978) (Conf. Rep.).
71 See supra, preamble section 1636.3(b)
Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

condition of being pregnant does not
depend on the ultimate outcome of the
pregnancy, as highlighted by Congress
extending coverage to ‘‘childbirth’’
separate from ‘‘pregnancy.’’ Thus, the
term ‘‘pregnancy’’ naturally includes all
of those limitations arising out of the
pregnancy itself, regardless of whether
any particular pregnancy ends in
miscarriage, live birth, an abortion, or
any other potential outcome. If an
employee is denied an accommodation
because they are seeking an abortion, or
not seeking an abortion, that employee
has necessarily been denied an
accommodation on account of their
current pregnancy. Accordingly, the
decision to have or not to have an
abortion falls squarely within the
ordinary meaning of the phrase
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’
Given how courts and the
Commission have defined ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ in Title VII, the
Commission disagrees that the PWFA
and its implementing regulation only
would apply to qualified employees
who are currently pregnant or who
recently gave birth, thus implicitly
excluding abortion. First, such an
interpretation would exclude qualified
employees who have had miscarriages
or are otherwise no longer pregnant,
which appears to be inconsistent with
the text of, and does not appear to be the
intent of, either the PWFA or the PDA.72
As stated above, by definition, qualified
employees who seek an abortion are
either currently or recently pregnant.
Finally, the Commission sees no
evidence that the inclusion of
‘‘childbirth’’ evinces congressional
intent to construct a narrower definition
of ‘‘related medical conditions’’ under
the PWFA than under Title VII, as both
statutes contain this identical language.
As stated above, both the legislative
history and the explicit exclusion of
certain abortion procedures from health
insurance requirements under the PDA
evince Congress’ intent to include
abortion in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ under Title VII.

72 See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 20
(discussing the need for the PWFA, citing to a case
in which an employee’s miscarriage was not
covered by the ADA, and noting that ‘‘[t]here are
many cases where courts have found that even
severe complications related to pregnancy do not
constitute disabilities triggering [ADA] protection’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ as Reflected in the
Statutory Intent and Structure of the
PWFA
Many comments regarding the
Commission’s proposed inclusion of
abortion in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ made arguments related to
the statutory intent and structure of the
PWFA.
Comments in favor of the inclusion of
abortion in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions,’’ including from Members of
Congress, asserted that the
Commission’s inclusion of abortion in
the definition is consistent with the
PWFA’s statutory intent and structure;
that Congress’ express purpose in
enacting the PWFA was to supplement
Title VII’s protections; that Congress
adopted the PWFA to remedy gaps in
existing legal protections, including in
Title VII, and it understood how
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is interpreted by
the courts; that Congress understood
that the PWFA could include possible
accommodations related to an abortion,
as evidenced by the statements of
legislators who opposed the PWFA,
showing that they understood it could
require accommodations related to an
abortion; that Congress recognized the
PWFA as an opportunity for Congress to
finally fulfill a promise of Title VII; and
that Congress intentionally included
‘‘related medical conditions’’ in the
PWFA to encompass conditions beyond
simply pregnancy and childbirth.
Many comments in favor of the
inclusion of abortion expressed that
including abortion furthers Congress’
policy goal of protecting pregnant
workers from harm; that it accurately
reflects the range of needs and
conditions that workers may experience
that require reasonable workplace
accommodations in relation to
pregnancy; that abortion care is a safe,
common, and essential component of
reproductive health care; that decisions
regarding abortion are private medical
matters and should be made by patients
in consultation with their clinicians and
without undue interference by outside
parties; and that providing
accommodations for abortion would
mean that employees would not have to
risk their health, lives, or livelihoods to
access care. Many such comments
focused on specific positive health and
social outcomes that employees would
enjoy if they had access to
accommodations for abortion, such as

PO 00000

Frm 00013

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29107

the ability to maintain personal bodily
autonomy; to choose when to have or
not have children; to receive necessary
health care in the event of intimate
partner violence, rape, incest, fetal
anomalies, and exposure to teratogenic
medications; and to receive necessary
health care in the event of pregnancy
complications that may be so severe that
abortion is the only measure that will
preserve a pregnant employee’s health
or save their life—including placental
abruption, bleeding from placenta
previa, preeclampsia or eclampsia, and
cardiac or renal conditions.
Comments opposed to the inclusion
of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ asserted that
including abortion does not reflect
Congress’ generally expressed intent for
the PWFA. For instance, comments
stated that the PWFA’s intent only is to
ensure that pregnant and postpartum
women can receive reasonable
accommodations to safely work; that the
PWFA’s intent only is to support
mothers during pregnancy and
childbirth and only to protect and
benefit the health of mothers and their
fetuses, as well as to provide
accommodations for miscarriage,
stillbirth, treatment of an ectopic
pregnancy, or emergency treatment
intended to preserve the life of the
pregnant employee, but not an abortion;
that the Commission’s interpretation
turns the PWFA into a general
reproductive health care statute, defying
Congress’ intent; that the PWFA was
intended by its supporters to be like the
ADA, which the comments construed
not to require accommodations for
abortion; that Congress did not intend to
make forays into controversial social
policy by enacting the PWFA; that
including abortion ignores that Congress
cited statistics about working mothers in
support of the PWFA and talked about
the health of the mother and baby; and
that Congress does not hide ‘‘elephants
in mouseholes,’’ and abortion is an
elephant in the mousehole of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’
Some comments opposed to the
inclusion of abortion also asserted that
the definition does not reflect
congressional intent as expressed by the
PWFA’s structure. These comments
noted that Congress chose not to amend
Title VII by incorporating the PWFA.
Such comments inferred from this
choice that Congress implicitly declined
to import Title VII’s definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ and its abortionrelated requirements into the PWFA.
These comments stated that the PWFA

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29108

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

does not specifically require the same
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ as Title VII,
as it does with other terms from the
ADA and Title VII, and if Congress
wanted the Commission to provide
examples of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ it would have expressly
said so.
Finally, some comments opposed to
the proposed definition stated that Title
VII’s insurance exclusion provision,
which addresses abortion and has been
used to suggest that Title VII otherwise
covers abortion, is different from the
PWFA’s similar exclusion provision.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ as Reflected in the
Statutory Intent and Structure of the
PWFA
As stated above, the Commission’s
inclusion of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is supported by the
plain text of the statute and by statutory
intent and structure and is in keeping
with the well-established rules of
statutory construction.73 Congress chose
to write the PWFA using an identical
phrase, ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions,’’ from Title
VII and did not define the phrase in the
PWFA. Nor did it place any limitations
or rules of construction on the
definition of the phrase in the PWFA.
Accordingly, the Commission gives the
phrase the same meaning under the
PWFA as it has under Title VII for
nearly 45 years. The Commission agrees
that the PWFA’s focus is
accommodation, but, as the text of the
PWFA and the ADA state and the
Supreme Court has reiterated,
accommodations are a form of
nondiscrimination.74 Thus, the fact that
the PWFA provides accommodations
does not make it a different type of
statute from Title VII. Additionally,
although Congress specifically

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

73 See supra note 67.
74 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1 (titled ‘‘Nondiscrimination
with regard to reasonable accommodations related
to pregnancy’’); 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(A) (‘‘[T]he
term ‘discriminate against a qualified individual on
the basis of disability’ includes . . . not making
reasonable accommodations . . . .’’); see also 29
CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9 (‘‘The obligation
to make reasonable accommodation is a form of
non-discrimination.’’); US Airways, Inc. v. Barnett,
535 U.S. 391, 396 (2002) (‘‘[T]he ADA says that
‘discrimination’ includes an employer’s not making
reasonable accommodations to the known physical
or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified . . .
employee, unless [the employer] can demonstrate
that the accommodation would impose an undue
hardship on the operation of [its] business.’ ’’)
(citing 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(A)) (emphasis in
original) (omission in original).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

incorporated certain definitions into the
PWFA from the ADA and Title VII, such
as those for ‘‘reasonable
accommodation,’’ ‘‘undue hardship,’’
‘‘employer,’’ and ‘‘employee,’’ in those
situations, the terms appear in more
than one other statute enforced by the
Commission, and some of their
definitions vary across statutes.75 In
incorporating certain terms, the
Commission understands Congress’
intent as specifying which definition it
chose to adopt in the PWFA to avoid
confusion. By contrast, there is only one
other statute that the Commission
enforces that uses the phrase
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions,’’ and that is Title
VII, as amended by the PDA. Therefore,
Congress’ intent to use the Title VII
definition in the PWFA is clear.
Further supporting the Commission’s
interpretation of the phrase ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ is the fact that the PWFA
passed as part of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2023 (CAA), in
which Congress included several
provisions explicitly limiting the use of
Federal funds for abortion.76 Where
Congress includes particular language in
one section of a law but omits it in
another, it is generally presumed that
Congress acts intentionally and
purposely in including or excluding
certain language.77 Given that Congress
explicitly included exclusions regarding
abortion in certain sections of the CAA
but omitted any such exclusion in the
PWFA, the Commission concludes that
the omission was an intentional act.
The Commission’s interpretation also
is consistent with the legislative history
of the PDA, the statute that is the source
75 42 U.S.C. 2000e(b) (defining ‘‘employer’’ under
Title VII), (f) (defining ‘‘employee’’ under Title VII),
(j) (defining ‘‘religion’’ with regard to an employer’s
obligation to ‘‘reasonably accommodate’’ an
employee’s religious observance or practice absent
‘‘undue hardship’’ under Title VII); 42 U.S.C.
12111(4) (defining ‘‘employee’’ under the ADA), (5)
(defining ‘‘employer’’ under the ADA), (9) (defining
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ under the ADA), (10)
(defining ‘‘undue hardship’’ under the ADA).
76 See, e.g., sec. 613, Public Law 117–328, 136
Stat. 4459, 4699 (2022) (providing that: ‘‘No funds
appropriated by this Act shall be available to pay
for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in
connection with any health plan under the Federal
employees health benefits program which provides
any benefits or coverage for abortions.’’).
77 Keene Corp. v. United States, 508 U.S. 200, 208
(1993) (quoting Russello v. United States, 464 U.S.
16, 23 (1983)). Of note, in the debate surrounding
the PWFA before its passage in the Senate, the
Senators discussed abortion. See 168 Cong. Rec.
S7,049–50 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022); 168 Cong. Rec.
S10,071, S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022). The
House Report also discusses abortion. See H.R. Rep.
No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 60. Thus, both chambers were
seemingly aware of this issue, but the law does not
include the type of abortion exclusion found in
other parts of the CAA.

PO 00000

Frm 00014

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

of the phrase, ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ The
Congressional Conference Report
accompanying the PDA provides:
‘‘Because [the PDA] applies to all
situations in which women are ‘affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, and related
medical conditions,’ its basic language
covers decisions by women who chose
to terminate their pregnancies. Thus, no
employer may, for example, fire or
refuse to hire a woman simply because
she has exercised her right to have an
abortion.’’ 78 By including the same key
phrase in the PWFA and not articulating
a different meaning than in the PDA,
Congress is presumed to know and
intend that the same definition will be
applied.79 And given the longstanding
and public interpretation of this phrase,
by both the Commission and the courts,
the Commission disagrees that adopting
the same interpretation as Title VII
amounts to Congress ‘‘hiding’’ an
elephant in a mousehole.
Furthermore, the second sentence of
the PDA states that employers do not
have to pay for health insurance benefits
for abortion, except where necessary to
preserve the life of the mother or where
medical complications have arisen from
an abortion.80 The inclusion of this
limited language regarding abortion
coverage, coupled with clear statements
in the legislative history, supports the
conclusion that Congress intended for
Title VII, as amended by the PDA, to
protect employees against
discrimination based on abortion and
that Congress provided an exception,
largely motivated by religious freedom
concerns, for employers to opt out of
providing health benefits to cover the
procedure itself.81 Of note, the PWFA
has a similar structure—it requires
employers not to discriminate against
protected qualified employees by failing
to provide them reasonable
accommodations, but it does not
require, or permit the Commission to
78 See H.R. Rep. No. 95–1786, at 4 (1978) (Conf.
Rep.).
79 See supra note 67.
80 See 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
81 See H.R. Rep. No. 95–948, at 7 (1978), as
reprinted in 1978 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4749, 4755 (‘‘Many
members of the committee were troubled . . . by
any implication that an employer would have to
pay for abortions not necessary to preserve the life
of the mother through medical benefits or other
fringe benefit programs, even if that employer—a
church organization for example—harbored
religious or moral objections to abortion; such a
requirement, it was felt, could compromise the
religious freedom of such employers. The
committee, therefore, amended the language of the
bill to deal with the problem, by making clear that
such employers will not be required to pay for
abortions except where the life of the mother would
be endangered if the fetus was carried to term.’’
(emphasis in original)).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

require, ‘‘an employer-sponsored health
plan to pay for or cover any particular
item, procedure, or treatment.’’ 82
As a matter of the PWFA’s plain text,
therefore, the Commission determines
that the decision to have, or not to have,
an abortion is encompassed within the
phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ Because
this conclusion follows from the
statutory text, the Commission does not
believe that other concerns raised by
commenters are relevant. The
Commission’s determination is not
based on the potential health or social
outcomes related to abortion; rather, the
Commission’s determination is based on
the statutory text. Moreover, it bears
emphasizing that this rulemaking does
not require abortions or affect the
availability of abortion; it simply
ensures that employees who choose to
have (or not to have) an abortion are
able to continue participating in the
workforce, by seeking reasonable
accommodations from covered
employers, as needed and absent undue
hardship.
Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and Statements From
Members of Congress and the White
House About the PWFA
Some comments pointed to
statements made by Members of
Congress to either support or dispute
the idea that the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ in the PWFA
includes abortion. Comments also noted
the absence of certain statements from
Members of Congress and the White
House.
First, comments that supported the
inclusion of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ pointed to
statements by opponents of the bill,
whose opposition was based on the
lawmakers’ views that abortion would
be covered.83 Some comments also
pointed to an amendment proposed by
Senator James Lankford that the Senate
rejected, which stated that ‘‘[t]his
division shall not be construed to
require a religious entity described in
Section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 to make an accommodation that
would violate the entity’s religion’’ 84 as
82 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2).
83 See, e.g., 168 Cong. Rec. S7049 (daily ed. Dec.
8, 2022) (statement of Sen. Thomas (Thom) Tillis);
167 Cong. Rec. H2325, H2330, H2332 (daily ed.
May 14, 2021) (statements of Rep. Julia Letlow, Rep.
Robert George (Bob) Good, and Rep. Mary Miller).
84 168 Cong. Rec. S10,069–70 (daily ed. Dec. 22,
2022).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

evidence that Senators knew that
abortion would be covered.
Comments that did not support the
inclusion of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ pointed to
statements made during floor debate by
two of the co-sponsors of the PWFA in
the Senate, Senator Robert P. Casey, Jr.85
and Senator William Cassidy.86 These
comments also mentioned that, in a
statement on the House floor,
Representative Jerrold Nadler, lead
sponsor of the PWFA, explained that the
PWFA should be interpreted
consistently with Title VII, stating: ‘‘The
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act aligns
with Title VII in providing protections
and reasonable accommodations for
‘pregnancy, childbirth, and related
medical conditions,’ like lactation.’’ 87
Second, comments that disagreed
with the Commission’s proposed
inclusion of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ pointed to
statements made by Senator Steven
Daines and Senator Cassidy after the
Senate voted to add the PWFA to the
CAA, both of which stated that
accommodations related to abortion
should not be covered. In addition,
comments that disagreed with the
Commission’s position pointed to the
lack of statements by supporters of the
bill in Congress and the White House,
and by advocacy groups, regarding its
coverage of abortion. Comments stated
that the PWFA would not have enjoyed
bipartisan support, if the intent of the
law were to include abortion, and
including abortion as a related medical
condition in the rule would make the
political parties less likely to work
together.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and Statements
From Members of Congress and the
White House About the PWFA
The PWFA’s text, structure, and
intent support the Commission’s
proposed definition. Even if the
Commission’s interpretation were
inconsistent with the cited statements of
individual Members of Congress during
the PWFA’s passage, statements made
by individual Members of Congress
during floor debate do not justify a
departure from an interpretation that
Congress, courts, and the Commission
have consistently adhered to since the
85 168 Cong. Rec. S7,050 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022).
86 See, e.g., id. at S7,049–50.
87 168 Cong. Rec. H10,527–28 (daily ed. Dec. 23,
2022).

PO 00000

Frm 00015

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29109

PDA was enacted more than four
decades ago. Again, the Commission’s
interpretation must start with the text of
the statute. Relying on the text, rather
than the individual statements of
Members of Congress, follows the
Supreme Court’s requirements when
interpreting a statute; as the Court has
noted, ‘‘[p]assing a law often requires
compromise, where even the most firm
public demands bend to competing
interests. What Congress ultimately
agrees on is the text that it enacts, not
the preferences expressed by certain
legislators.’’ 88
In addition, the Commission does not
agree that the PWFA’s legislative history
counsels for a different interpretation of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ than in the PDA.
For example, according to the House
PWFA Committee Report, Members
knew that abortion would be covered as
a pregnancy-related condition for which
some employers would need to provide
accommodation.89 Additionally, the
Commission’s definition is consistent
with the full floor statement of Senator
Casey and the comment that the Senator
submitted during the public comment
period.90 Consistent with the statutory
text and Congress’ intent, the PWFA
does not impose a categorical mandate
on an employer to provide leave for an
abortion. Leave, like any
accommodation, is subject to applicable
exceptions and defenses, including both
those based on religion and on undue
hardship. Nothing in the PWFA requires
an employer to pay for an abortion or
provide health care benefits for abortion
in violation of State law.91
Finally, numerous legislators
submitted comments during the public
88 NLRB v. SW Gen., Inc., 580 U.S. 288, 306
(2017) (citations omitted); see also March v. United
States, 506 F.2d 1306, 1314 n.31 (D.C. Cir. 1974)
(citing NLRB v. Plasterers’ Loc. Union, 404 U.S. 116,
129–30 n.24 (1971) (providing that, where
congressional debates ‘‘reflect individual
interpretations that are contradictory and
ambiguous, they carry no probative weight’’)).
89 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 60 (stating under
minority views that ‘‘if an employee working for a
religious organization requests time off to have an
abortion procedure, H.R. 1065 could require the
organization to comply with this request as a
reasonable accommodation of known limitations
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’).
90 168 Cong. Rec. S7,050 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022);
Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98384, Sen. Robert P.
Casey, Jr. (Oct. 10, 2023) (stating that in drafting the
PWFA, legislators intentionally used terms from
other laws, including ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions,’’ and supporting the
definition in the proposed rule).
91 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2); 88 FR 54745
(stating that ‘‘nothing in the PWFA requires or
forbids an employer to pay for health insurance
benefits for an abortion’’). Covered entities,
however, may separately be subject to the PDA’s
provisions regarding abortion coverage in certain
circumstances. See 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29110

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

comment period that supported or
opposed the inclusion of abortion in the
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ As these
were statements made by Members of
Congress after the passage of a bill, the
Commission gave them due
consideration as statements of the views
of each particular Member who signed
them.92
In response to the comments
regarding the political process, the
Commission cannot speculate on
counterfactual scenarios such as what
might have triggered a filibuster of the
PWFA in Congress, nor what would
diminish bipartisan support for future
legislation. And the Commission cannot
reinterpret the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ based on the purported
absence of certain statements by
Members of Congress, advocates, or the
executive branch during the bill’s
passage.
As explained above, the Commission
must rely on the plain text of the statute.
Given the meaning of the words that
Congress chose to use in the PWFA, and
the Commission’s and courts’ long
history of interpreting those identical
words to include abortion, the
Commission will interpret those words
the same way in the PWFA.
Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and Administrative and
Judicial Interpretation
Many comments in favor of the
Commission’s inclusion of abortion in
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ asserted
that the Commission’s inclusion of

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

92 Cf. Nat’l Woodwork Mfrs. Ass’n v. NLRB, 386

U.S. 612, 639 n.34 (1967) (observing that statements
inserted into the record after passage of a bill are
regarded as ‘‘represent[ing] only the personal views
of the[ ] legislators’’ involved). Senator Patricia
Murray, joined by 24 Senators, endorsed the
Commission’s interpretation regarding the
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions,’’ Comment EEOC–2023–0004–
98257, Sen. Patricia (Patty) Murray and 24 U.S.
Senators (Oct. 10, 2023); as did Representative
Jerrold Nadler, joined by 82 House Representatives,
Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98470, Rep. Jerrold
(Jerry) Nadler and 82 Members of Congress (Oct. 10,
2023); and Representative Robert Scott, Comment
EEOC–2023–0004–98339, Rep. Robert C. (Bobby)
Scott, Ranking Member of the House Committee on
Education and the Workforce (Oct. 10, 2023). By
contrast, Senator James Lankford’s comment, which
was joined by 19 Senators, including Senator Bill
Cassidy, and 41 House Representatives, disagreed
with the Commission’s interpretation. Comment
EEOC–2023–0004–98436, Sen. James Lankford, 19
U.S. Senators, and 41 Members of Congress (Oct.
10, 2023). Similarly, Senator Michael Braun’s
comment disagreed with the Commission’s
interpretation. Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98486,
Sen. Michael (Mike) Braun (Oct. 10, 2023).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

abortion in the definition accurately
reflects longstanding judicial and
administrative interpretations under
Title VII. Comments stated that the
Commission’s interpretation is correct
and consistent with decades of authority
under Title VII, including legislative
history, Federal case law, and
Commission guidance; that existing case
law supports the Commission’s
interpretation that Title VII protects
employees from discrimination for
contemplating or obtaining an abortion
or refusing to submit to an employer’s
demand that they obtain an abortion;
and that the Commission’s Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination
reaffirmed that choosing whether to
have or not to have an abortion is
covered under the PDA.
Some comments opposed to the
Commission’s proposed inclusion of
abortion in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ asserted that the
Commission’s definition is contrary to
judicial and administrative
interpretations under Title VII.
Some comments disputed the
Commission’s statement that existing
case law under Title VII supports the
Commission’s definition, claiming that
the decisions do not apply to the PWFA
and are distinguishable; that there is not
a widespread judicial consensus about
the meaning of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’; and that the Commission
should not rely on lower court
decisions.
Some comments took issue with the
Commission’s reliance on its 2015
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination to interpret the phrase
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ under the PWFA,
as the Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination does not
receive binding judicial deference; only
addresses pregnancy discrimination, not
accommodation; and was issued many
years after the PDA’s enactment.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and
Administrative and Judicial
Interpretation
The Commission disagrees with the
comments that dispute the case law it
cited and its reliance on its Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination.
The Title VII decisions the Commission
cited involve situations where
employers discriminated against
employees because they contemplated
having, or chose to have, an abortion.
These decisions include Doe v. C.A.R.S.
Protection Plus, a Third Circuit decision

PO 00000

Frm 00016

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

relating to leave holding that an
employer may not discriminate against
an employee because she had an
abortion.93 As stated above, refusal to
provide reasonable accommodation is a
form of discrimination.94 Finally, the
Commission’s reliance on its
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination is appropriate because it
represents and demonstrates the
consistent position of the Commission.
It is immaterial that the guidance was
voted on and approved by the
Commission years after the passage of
the PDA, especially given that the year
after the PDA was enacted, the
Commission issued its Questions &
Answers about the PDA stating that
abortion is covered under the PDA and
prohibiting discrimination in
employment practices because an
employee had or did not have an
abortion.95 Thus, the Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination
reconfirmed and still reflects the
Commission’s decades-long position.
Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and Other Laws
Some comments pointed to other laws
to dispute the Commission’s definition
of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’ The comments
pointed to the provisions in annual
appropriations legislation, for example,
the Hyde and Weldon Amendments,
limiting the use of Federal funds for
abortion except in certain
circumstances. The comments also
stated that Congress has never passed a
law explicitly promoting the right to
abortion. Similar comments noted that
93 527 F.3d at 363–64 (citing, inter alia, Turic v.
Holland Hosp., Inc., 85 F.3d 1211, 1214 (6th Cir.
1996)); see also DeJesus, 2018 WL 4931817, at *1
(denying the employer’s motion to dismiss in a
Title VII case where an employee used approved
leave to have an abortion and was fired shortly
thereafter when her supervisor stated that the
medical procedure was not an appropriate excuse
for her absence).
94 See supra note 74.
95 29 CFR part 1604, appendix, Question 34 (‘‘Q.
Can an employer discharge, refuse to hire or
otherwise discriminate against a woman because
she has had an abortion?/A. No. An employer
cannot discriminate in its employment practices
against a woman who has had an abortion.’’),
Question 35 (‘‘Q. Is an employer required to provide
fringe benefits for abortions if fringe benefits are
provided for other medical conditions?/A. All
fringe benefits other than health insurance, such as
sick leave, which are provided for other medical
conditions, must be provided for abortions. Health
insurance, however, need be provided for abortions
only where the life of the woman would be
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or
where medical complications arise from an
abortion.’’); see also supra note 28 (noting that in
the PWFA Congress was seeking to protect the same
employees who are protected by the PDA).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
some States such as West Virginia and
Louisiana have adopted their own
versions of the PWFA, and no court
appears to have interpreted State or
local PWFAs to include abortion.
Comments also stated that the
Commission should clarify whether its
regulation supersedes abortion funding
restrictions in the Hyde Amendment
and similar amendments, and how the
Federal Government will ensure that
Federal agencies do not pay for abortion
accommodations and ensure that the
same rules that apply to the ADA
regarding taxpayer funding for abortion
apply to the PWFA.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and Other Laws
In interpreting the identical language
from Title VII in the context of the
PWFA, the Commission cannot infer
congressional intent in a manner
contrary to the plain text interpretation,
particularly not based on what Congress
could have said, but chose not to say.
There is no evidence to suggest that the
other Federal statutes cited by the
comments should be considered by the
Commission as interpreting the PWFA,
nor is there any persuasive reason to
give controlling weight to these statutes
(instead of interpreting the PWFA
consistently with Title VII, as Congress
intended). Rather, the fact that Congress
chose to provide express exclusions
related to abortion in the cited statutes,
including in the CAA, but did not
choose to do so in the PWFA, suggests
that if Congress wanted to exclude
abortion from the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ in the PWFA, it
would have done so expressly.
Moreover, the PWFA, as interpreted
by the Commission in this rule, does not
in any way promote abortion; it simply
provides for the possibility of an
accommodation related to a qualified
employee seeking an abortion, absent
undue hardship, and there is only a
narrow context in which this protection
would likely apply—when an employee
is seeking leave—given the prohibitions
of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2).96 The
PWFA also provides for
accommodations for employees who
96 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2) provides that
‘‘[n]othing in this chapter shall be construed . . .
by regulation or otherwise, to require an employersponsored health plan to pay for or cover any
particular item, procedure, or treatment or to affect
any right or remedy available under any other
Federal, State, or local law with respect to any such
payment or coverage requirement.’’

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

choose not to have an abortion, absent
undue hardship.
Further, the interpretation of State
laws is not as persuasive as the
interpretation of Title VII when
Congress used the same words in both
Federal statutes. Comments addressing
State laws did not address whether
cases regarding abortion arose under
these PWFA-analogous laws. As stated
above, despite the large number of
comments on this issue, the
Commission’s practical experience
under Title VII shows that litigation
regarding this issue is not common.
Finally, as stated previously, the
Commission’s rule does not require any
employer to pay for an abortion.
Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and the Dobbs Decision
Some comments stated that the
Supreme Court’s decision in Dobbs v.
Jackson Women’s Health Org., 597 U.S.
215 (2022), which concluded that there
is no Federal constitutional right to
abortion and overruled Roe v. Wade,
410 U.S. 113 (1973), and Planned
Parenthood of Southeastern
Pennsylvania v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833
(1992), affects the Commission’s
rulemaking.
First, some comments said that,
because the PWFA was enacted soon
after the Court issued its Dobbs
decision, Congress should have stated
more clearly in the PWFA any
protection for an employee seeking an
accommodation related to an abortion, if
that was its intent. Second, some
comments asserted that, because of the
Dobbs decision, abortion is a State issue,
not a Federal issue, that there is no
Federal right to abortion, that including
abortion accommodations in the PWFA
would circumvent Dobbs, and that
under Dobbs, abortion is not health care.
Comments also stated that the Title VII
case law cited by the Commission
involved substantial reliance on the
constitutional right to abortion now
undone by Dobbs.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and the Dobbs
Decision
Given the language that Congress used
in the PWFA and the use and
interpretation of that same language in
Title VII, the Dobbs decision does not
suggest a different definition of the
phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ First,
Congress is not required to speak
directly to a specific issue when it

PO 00000

Frm 00017

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29111

legislates. ‘‘In some cases, Congress
intends silence to rule out a particular
statutory application, while in others
Congress’ silence signifies merely an
expectation that nothing more need be
said in order to effectuate the relevant
legislative objective.’’ 97 Congress’
choice to use the same phrase in the
PWFA as in Title VII, coupled with
Congress’ decision to enact limitations
with respect to abortion in other
portions of the CAA but not in the
PWFA, supports the Commission’s
interpretation that ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ has the same meaning in
the PWFA that it does in Title VII, and
it includes abortion. Thus, the
conclusion the Commission draws from
Congress’ lack of an explicit mention of
abortion in the PWFA is that Congress
did not express its intent for the phrase
to have any different meaning than it
has under Title VII.
As stated at the beginning of this
discussion, the Commission’s rule does
not regulate abortion or abortion
procedures, nor does it require an
employer to pay for, promote, or
endorse abortion. Additionally,
although Dobbs held that the U.S.
Constitution’s Due Process Clause does
not provide a right to abortion, that
interpretation of the Constitution does
not address Congress’ authority to
regulate potential employment
discrimination by providing for
reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions absent undue
hardship, as Congress has done in the
PWFA. Dobbs did not involve, and the
Court did not discuss, employment
protections under Title VII, and Dobbs
did not purport to interpret the meaning
of the phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ in Title VII.
Ultimately, Dobbs concerned a matter of
constitutional interpretation and not
one of statutory interpretation, and the
cases cited by the Commission in
support of the inclusion of abortion in
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ may still
be relied on. Indeed, Congress enacted
the PWFA after the Dobbs decision and
chose to retain the phrase ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ that it had used in Title VII
without any modification or instruction.
Thus, even if Dobbs could be construed
as an invitation for Congress to
reevaluate that language from Title VII,
Congress did not do so.
97 Burns v. United States, 501 U.S. 129, 136
(1991), abrogated on other grounds as recognized by
Dillon v. United States, 560 U.S. 817 (2010).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29112

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and Policy Arguments
Regarding Abortion
Many comments supported the
inclusion of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ for various policy
reasons. As discussed at length above,
such reasons included, for example,
stating that it would help employees
access essential health care and have
autonomy about their reproductive
decisions.
By contrast, other comments stated
that, as a policy matter, the Commission
should not include abortion in the
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ First, some
comments speculated that including
abortion in the definition will result in
employers encouraging their pregnant
workers to have abortions. Some of
these comments suggested that
employers might even require pregnant
workers to take leave to have an
abortion instead of another available
accommodation. Second, some
comments stated that there should be no
accommodations for abortion because,
according to the comments, abortion
causes mental health issues for women.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and Policy
Arguments Regarding Abortion
As explained above, the Commission
must rely on the plain text of the statute.
Given the words that Congress chose to
use in the PWFA, and the Commission’s
and courts’ long history of interpreting
those identical words to include
abortion, the Commission will interpret
those words the same way in the PWFA.
The Commission disagrees with
commenters who argued that excluding
abortion from the definition serves the
policy goals expressed by Congress in
the PWFA. On the contrary, as
discussed above, the Commission
concludes that including abortion in the
definition best serves the policy goals
expressed by Congress in the PWFA in
that it will allow qualified employees
with known limitations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to obtain
accommodations to address their needs,
absent undue hardship. While the
comments make policy arguments
opposed to the inclusion of abortion in
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions,’’ these
policy objections are not a reason for the
Commission to change its interpretation

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

and deviate from the text of the statute
and established rules of statutory
construction. Additionally, the
Commission notes that some of the
claims in the comments that argued
against abortion for policy reasons have
been disputed by health care
professionals.98
With regard to concerns that
employers will force their employees to
have abortions, Title VII prohibits
covered entities from taking adverse
employment actions against an
employee based on their decisions to
have, or not to have, an abortion.99
Consistent with this interpretation, the
Commission’s definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ includes both having an
abortion and choosing not to have an
abortion, thus protecting pregnant
employees who decide to continue their
pregnancies.100
Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and the Interaction
Between State Laws Regarding Abortion
and the PWFA
Some comments asserted that covered
entities cannot be required to provide
accommodations relating to an abortion
because some State laws prohibit
abortion under certain circumstances.
Some comments also noted that some
State laws provide that an individual
may sue another individual for conduct
that aids in the performance of an
abortion in violation of State law. A few
98 For example, the contention that abortion
causes mental health issues for women is refuted by
major mental health organizations. Am. Psych.
Ass’n, Abortion (2024), https://www.apa.org/topics/
abortion; see also Healthline, Understanding the
Relationship Between Abortion and Mental Health
(July 6, 2023), https://www.healthline.com/health/
abortion-and-mental-health; M. Antonia Biggs et
al., Women’s Mental Health and Well-Being 5 Years
After Receiving or Being Denied an Abortion: A
Prospective, Longitudinal Cohort Study, 74 JAMA
Psychiatry 169 (Feb. 2017), https://
jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/
fullarticle/2592320.
99 See, e.g., EEOC v. Ryan’s Pointe Houston, LLC,
No. 19–20656, 2022 WL 4494148, at *7 (5th Cir.
Sept. 27, 2022); Velez v. Novartis Pharms. Corp.,
244 FRD. 243, 267 (S.D.N.Y. 2007) (including a
declaration by a female employee that she was
encouraged by a manager to get an abortion as
anecdotal evidence supporting a class claim of
pregnancy discrimination); Enforcement Guidance
on Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 31, at
(I)(A)(4)(c).
100 See, e.g., Ryan’s Pointe Houston, 2022 WL
4494148, at *7; Press Release, EEOC, Best Western
Hotels in Tacoma and Federal Way To Pay
$365,000 To Settle EEOC Suit for Harassment (July
5, 2012) (announcing settlement of a harassment
case by the EEOC that included allegations that the
harasser belittled the religious beliefs of employees,
including telling a pregnant employee she should
have an abortion even though she said it was
against her religious beliefs).

PO 00000

Frm 00018

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

comments stated that the rule will
compel State and local governments to
provide accommodations contrary to
State law, and that doing so transgresses
limits of federalism; one comment
asserted that certain Senators were
concerned about litigation against the
States and voted to remove the PWFA’s
text that waives State immunity to
lawsuits.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and the Interaction
Between State Laws Regarding Abortion
and the PWFA
The Commission does not agree with
comments that the inclusion of abortion
in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ requires covered entities,
including State and local governments,
to violate State laws that limit access to
abortion, nor does the rule transgress
limits of federalism. The rule does not
prescribe when, where, or under what
circumstances an abortion can be
obtained or what procedures may be
used. If the issue of a PWFA
accommodation regarding abortion
arises, it will likely concern only a
request by a qualified employee for
leave from work.101 Accordingly, State
laws that regulate the provision of
abortions in certain circumstances do
not conflict with covered entities’
obligations under the PWFA.
Any potential interaction or conflict
between PWFA and State laws,
including State laws that allow civil
suits to challenge actions that private
individuals claim aid in the provision of
an abortion, will be addressed on a caseby-case basis. Of note, the PWFA does
not require an employer to pay for an
abortion, and neither does the
regulation.102
101 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2) provides that
‘‘[n]othing in this chapter shall be construed . . .
by regulation or otherwise, to require an employersponsored health plan to pay for or cover any
particular item, procedure, or treatment or to affect
any right or remedy available under any other
Federal, State, or local law with respect to any such
payment or coverage requirement.’’ Some
comments speculated that employers, including
State and local governments, could violate State
laws restricting abortion access if they provided
leave to employees who then traveled across State
lines to obtain abortion care. The Commission notes
that employees can currently use their leave to do
so, and the comments did not explain why the leave
being a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA would create a different set of circumstances
or a different result.
102 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2); 88 FR 54745
(stating that ‘‘nothing in the PWFA requires or
forbids an employer to pay for health insurance
benefits for an abortion’’). Covered entities may,
however, be subject to Title VII’s provisions
regarding abortion coverage in certain
circumstances. See 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
The Commission agrees that State and
local governments are covered
employers and are required to provide
accommodations under the PWFA,
absent undue hardship. As stated above,
any potential interaction or conflict
between a State law and the PWFA will
be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
Further, States and local governments
that are covered by the PWFA are
covered by Title VII, which has
protected employees’ rights to be free
from discrimination in employment for
having, or for not having, an abortion for
nearly 45 years, and yet comments on
this topic did not point to a situation
where a State was forced to violate its
own laws. Finally, Congress did not
vote to remove the section of the PWFA
that waives State sovereign immunity;
that provision is in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–4.
Ultimately, whether any particular
action taken by an employer pursuant to
the PWFA could potentially implicate
State law is dependent on the content of
each individual State’s laws, including
how those laws are interpreted by each
State’s courts. As noted above,
commenters did not identify any realworld scenarios in which Title VII’s
protections for employees’ rights with
regard to abortion have led to employer
concerns about liability under State law.
To the extent any such issues arise in
connection with the PWFA, the
Commission believes they are best
addressed on a case-by-case basis,
particularly given the State- and factspecific nature of these issues.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and the Major Questions
Doctrine
Some comments argued that to
include abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ implicates the
major questions doctrine.103
In claiming that the major questions
doctrine applies, comments stated that
abortion has been a heated political
topic or a source of moral controversy;
103 The major questions doctrine applies to
‘‘extraordinary cases that call for a different
approach—cases in which the history and the
breadth of the authority that [the agency] has
asserted, and the economic and political
significance of that assertion, provide a reason to
hesitate before concluding that Congress meant to
confer such authority.’’ West Virginia v. EPA, 597
U.S. 697, 721 (2022) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Under this doctrine, the Court has rejected
agency claims of statutory authority when: (1) the
underlying claim of authority concerns an issue of
‘‘vast economic and political significance,’’ and (2)
Congress has not clearly empowered the agency
with authority over the issue. Util. Air Regul. Grp.
v. EPA, 573 U.S. 302, 324 (2014) (internal quotation
marks omitted).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

that the Dobbs majority and dissent both
found abortion to have important
economic consequences; and that the
possibility of reasonable
accommodations for an abortion meets
the threshold of deep political
significance, implicating the major
questions doctrine. Comments also
stated that the Commission must show
that the decision to allow for possible
reasonable accommodations for an
abortion, absent undue hardship, was
clear in the text of the PWFA at the time
of enactment; that if Congress wanted to
put paid abortion leave into the PWFA,
it would have done so explicitly; and
that the Commission may not issue
regulations with vast political
significance unless clearly directed by
Congress.
By contrast, other comments disputed
whether the major questions doctrine
applies to the PWFA and the
Commission’s definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’ For instance, one detailed
comment noted that the Supreme Court
has limited the major questions doctrine
to a narrow category of extraordinary
paradigm cases that are very different
from the posture of the PWFA
rulemaking.104 The comment stated that
none of the indicia of a major question
exist in this rulemaking—the
Commission is merely interpreting a
phrase the same way it did in Title VII,
with no change to the prevailing
interpretation of this longstanding
statutory text. Additionally, the
comment asserted the rule does not
address questions of such vast economic
and political significance as to raise a
presumption against congressional
delegation of authority and the
comment supported the rule as an
exercise of agency authority to interpret
and implement a statute, using the same
long-established textual interpretation
as in a related statute.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and the Major
Questions Doctrine
The Commission disagrees that
inclusion of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ implicates the
major questions doctrine. The inclusion
of abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is for the limited
purpose of qualifying for a workplace
104 See Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98328,
Professors Greer Donley, David S. Cohen, Rachel
Rebouche, Kate Shaw, Melissa Murray, and Leah
Litman (Oct. 10, 2023).

PO 00000

Frm 00019

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29113

accommodation under the PWFA,
which is subject to defenses and caseby-case assessment. Moreover, the
Commission anticipates that any
requests for accommodations related to
abortion will typically involve the
provision of unpaid leave. Thus,
including abortion in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is not the type of
‘‘extraordinary case[ ]’’ that implicates
the major questions doctrine.105 The
Commission is simply implementing
Congress’ intent by confirming that the
term ‘‘related medical conditions’’ has
the same meaning given to the term in
Title VII for over four decades. Thus, the
Commission is effectuating a policy
decision made by Congress itself, not
claiming a ‘‘newfound power’’ that
would ‘‘represent[ ] a transformative
expansion in its regulatory authority’’ or
‘‘make a radical or fundamental change
to a statutory scheme.’’ 106 And no court
has applied the major questions
doctrine to the Commission’s identical
interpretation of Title VII’s identical
text.
The provision of possible reasonable
accommodations for known limitations
related to an abortion does not have the
type of economic impact found in other
cases that successfully invoked the
major questions doctrine. Because the
PWFA prohibits any requirement ‘‘by
regulation or otherwise . . . [for] an
employer-sponsored health plan to pay
for or cover a particular item, procedure,
or treatment,’’ the Commission
anticipates that most requests for
accommodations related to an abortion
will involve only the provision of leave,
which will likely be unpaid.107 Thus,
any economic impact will be minimal.
Further, the Commission’s use of the
term does not ‘‘effec[t] a ‘fundamental
revision of the statute, changing it from
[one sort of] scheme of . . . regulation’
into an entirely different kind’’; 108
rather, it implements a new statute by
harmonizing the meaning of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ in Title VII and the
PWFA. The ‘‘consistency of [an
agency’s] prior position is significant’’
when it comes to the major questions
doctrine, because ‘‘[i]t provides
important context’’ about what Congress
‘‘understood’’ the statute to permit.109
105 See West Virginia, 597 U.S. at 721.
106 Id. at 723–24 (internal quotation marks
omitted).
107 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2).
108 Biden v. Nebraska, 600 U.S. l, 143 S. Ct.
2355, 2373 (2023) (quoting West Virginia, 597 U.S.
at 728).
109 FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.,
529 U.S. 120, 157 (2000).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29114

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

‘‘Congress must be taken to have been
familiar with the existing administrative
interpretation.’’ 110 The relevant
statutory language—‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’—has a well-documented,
consistent, and historical definition, and
the Commission is within its authority
to use that definition in implementing a
new statute.
By contrast, were the Commission to
stray from Title VII’s interpretation of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ for the purpose of
adopting a definition that excluded
abortion, the Commission would be
taking a novel stance, contrary to the
language of the PWFA and the intent
expressed by Congress in using the
language of Title VII.
Comment Regarding the Commission’s
Proposed Definition of ‘‘Pregnancy,
Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ and Separation of Powers
Concerns
One comment raised a constitutional
objection to the Commission’s structure,
asserting that the President can remove
Commissioners ‘‘only for cause.’’
Response to Comment Regarding the
Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions’’ and Separation of
Powers Concerns
The Commission disagrees that there
is any constitutional defect in the
agency’s structure, and, in any event,
the comment provides no basis to
believe that anything about the rule or
its implementation would be different if
the Commission had a different
structure.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(c) Employee’s Representative
Several comments suggested
additions to the definition of
‘‘employee’s representative,’’ including
‘‘union representative,’’ ‘‘co-worker,’’
and ‘‘manager.’’ The Commission has
added ‘‘union representative’’ to the list,
which is further illustrated in Example
#31. The addition reflects an important
kind of representative and differs from
the other illustrative third parties listed.
The Commission has not made further
changes to the list. The list in the
proposed regulation mirrors that set out
in ADA 111 policy and is not exhaustive.
Further, the Commission believes that
110 McFeely v. Comm’r of Internal Revenue, 296
U.S. 102, 110 (1935).
111 See EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship
under the ADA, Question 2 (2002) [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation], http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-reasonableaccommodation-and-undue-hardship-under-ada.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

the addition of ‘‘manager’’ would not
add clarity to the definition and would
risk confusing management officials
about their roles and obligations under
the PWFA.
Other comments proposed changing
‘‘other representative’’ to what they
believe to be more descriptive language,
such as ‘‘any other person who
communicates.’’ The Commission is
maintaining ‘‘representative’’ because it
is the language used in the statute.
Several comments recommended that
the rule require the employee’s
representative to have the employee’s
permission to communicate the
employee’s limitation. The Commission
expects that normally the representative
will have the employee’s permission but
notes that there may be situations, for
example when the employee is
incapacitated, where that may not be
possible. The Commission has added
this information in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(c)
Employee’s Representative. The
Commission declines to delineate a
specific form or manner for an
individual to be considered a
representative because this would
unnecessarily increase the burden on
employees and potentially delay the
processing of an accommodation
request. The PWFA intends to make
seeking and obtaining an
accommodation efficient and effective.
Requiring an employee to submit
evidence of their authorization to enable
a third party to request an
accommodation on their behalf would
thwart the PWFA’s efforts to make such
communication a simple task.
Several comments proposed that once
the employee’s representative has made
the need for an accommodation known,
the employer must then engage in the
interactive process directly with the
employee. Again, the Commission
expects that this will be the normal
situation but notes, for example, that
when the employee is incapacitated or
the representative is the employee’s
attorney, the employer may need to
continue to engage with the
representative rather than the employee.
The Commission has added information
to this effect in the Interpretive
Guidance in 1636.3(c) Employee’s
Representative. Finally, the Commission
has removed the word ‘‘known’’ before
‘‘limitation’’ in the Interpretive
Guidance for this section because the
limitation is not ‘‘known’’ until it has
been communicated.
1636.3(d) Communicated to the
Employer
The Commission received numerous
comments regarding the definition of

PO 00000

Frm 00020

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

‘‘communicated to the employer,’’ what
information the employee should have
to provide to the employer, with whom
the employee should communicate, and
what the employer can or cannot require
the employee to do after the initial
request.
Several comments correctly pointed
out that the statutory definition of
‘‘communicated to the employer’’ in the
PWFA does not include a description or
requirement of how the employee must
request a reasonable accommodation.
Thus, the Commission has moved the
information regarding how an employee
requests a reasonable accommodation
(formerly in proposed § 1636.3(d)(3)) to
the section of the rule regarding
reasonable accommodations
(§ 1636.3(h)(2)). Although these sections
are now separate and therefore follow
the statutory text more closely, they
have many important commonalities.
Specifically, both communicating to the
employer regarding the limitation and
requesting a reasonable accommodation
should be simple processes that do not
require any specific language; both can
be made to the same people at the
covered entity at the same time; and for
both there are limitations as to the
information the covered entity can
require. In practice, the Commission
recognizes that in most cases these
communications will occur
simultaneously: an employee will
communicate about their limitation in
the process of informing the employer
that they need an adjustment or change
at work for reasons related to the
limitation.
Thus, the final regulation’s definition
of ‘‘communicated to the employer’’
consists only of § 1636.3(d) introductory
text and (d)(1) and (2) from the NPRM.
Paragraph (d)(3), with some
modifications, has been moved to
§ 1636.3(h)(2).
Section 1636.3(d) of the proposed
regulation stated that ‘‘communicated to
the employer’’ means to make known to
the covered entity either by
communicating with a supervisor,
manager, someone who has supervisory
authority for the employee (or the
equivalent for an applicant), or human
resources personnel, or by following the
covered entity’s policy to request an
accommodation. Several comments
suggested that this list include someone
‘‘who directs the employee’s tasks’’ in
order to better reflect circumstances
where a workplace may not use a
supervisory structure or specific job
titles. The Commission agrees that this
additional language will help employees
and covered entities better understand
that such communication also is
appropriately directed to those

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
individuals whom an employee would
normally consult if they had a question
or concern. Thus, the final rule includes
the addition of ‘‘or who regularly directs
the employee’s tasks.’’ Some comments
also suggested that the Commission
clarify that the entity with whom the
employee may communicate could
include any agents of the employer such
as a search firm, staffing agency, or
third-party benefits administrator. The
Commission has included that
information in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(d)
Communicated to the Employer and
1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a
Reasonable Accommodation and has
covered these entities in the regulation
by adding ‘‘another appropriate
official,’’ a term that also serves to cover
other entities with authority for the
employee who may not have one of the
titles used in the rest of this portion of
the regulation.
Paragraph (d)(1) has not changed from
the NPRM. In paragraph (d)(2), the
Commission has added that the
communication regarding the limitation
need not use specific words in order for
it to be considered ‘‘communicated to
the employer.’’ The Commission also
has changed the structure of this
sentence so that it matches that of
paragraph (d)(1) and refers to the
communication, rather than what a
covered entity may or may not require
and has slightly changed the wording of
the prohibitions. For example, the
proposed rule said, ‘‘any specific
format’’ and the final rule says, ‘‘in a
specific format’’; and the proposed rule
said, ‘‘any particular form’’ and the final
rule says, ‘‘on a specific form.’’
In the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(d) Communicated to the
Employer and 1636.3(h)(2) How To
Request a Reasonable Accommodation,
the Commission has combined the
information for § 1636.3(d) and (h)(2) to
emphasize that the communication of
the limitation and the request for an
accommodation will usually happen at
the same time, that both should be
simple tasks, and that both are governed
by the same rules regarding with whom
the employee may communicate, and
the lack of a requirement for any
specific words or forms (§ 1636.3(d)).
The Commission also has added
information explaining that, because
many situations that may qualify for
coverage under the PWFA could be
classified as either a ‘‘limitation’’ (a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions) or ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions,’’
employees do not need to identify a

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

specific part of the regulation under
which they believe they are entitled to
coverage in order to make a request.
Employers should not decide that an
employee is not covered by the PWFA
or otherwise restrict an employee’s
rights under the PWFA because the
employer thinks the employee has
improperly labeled something a
‘‘limitation’’ when it is better
characterized as a ‘‘related medical
condition,’’ or the reverse. For example,
if an employee needs bed rest because
they are pregnant and have placenta
previa, the placenta previa could be the
‘‘physical or mental condition’’ related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, or the placenta previa could
be a ‘‘related medical condition’’ to
pregnancy and the physical or mental
condition could be the need to limit
walking or standing. In either instance,
the employee is covered by the PWFA
and can request an accommodation.
The Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(d) Communicated to the
Employer and 1636.3(h)(2) How To
Request a Reasonable Accommodation
also has been modified to explain that
an employee is not required to identify
the statute under which they are
requesting a reasonable accommodation
(e.g., the ADA, the PWFA, or Title VII).
Doing so would require that employees
seeking accommodations use specific
words or phrases, which the regulation
prohibits.
Finally, the Commission has added
information to the Interpretive Guidance
that explains the types of people with
whom the employee may communicate
as set out in the final rule. The
Commission has moved the examples
that were in § 1636.3(d) in the NPRM to
section 1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a
Reasonable Accommodation in the
Interpretive Guidance and has added an
explanation at the start of the list of
examples regarding the
communications, rather than having an
explanation after each example.
1636.3(e) Consideration of Mitigating
Measures
The Commission received very few
comments concerning mitigating
measures. The language in the final rule
is unchanged from the proposed rule
and is the same as the language in the
ADA regulation, except that the
Commission made a minor edit for
accuracy to remove the word ‘‘known’’
from § 1636.3(e)(1). This edit is
necessary because the consideration of
mitigating measures would only affect
the determination of whether an
employee has a limitation and not
whether that limitation is ‘‘known.’’ The
Commission further changed language

PO 00000

Frm 00021

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29115

in the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(e) Consideration of Mitigating
Measures slightly to point out that the
ameliorative effects of mitigating
measures can be considered when
determining the appropriate reasonable
accommodation.112
1636.3(f) Qualified Employee
1636.3(f)(1) With or Without Reasonable
Accommodation
The Commission received very few
comments concerning the definition of
‘‘qualified employee’’ as an employee
who, with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the
essential functions of the job. The final
rule maintains the language from the
proposed rule, which uses the language
from the ADA.
The Commission also did not receive
many comments regarding the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for the
reasonable accommodation of leave and
has maintained that definition and the
language in § 1636.3(f)(1) and in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(f)(1) under ‘‘Qualified’’ for the
Reasonable Accommodation of Leave.
The Commission addresses other
comments it received regarding leave as
a reasonable accommodation in the
preamble in section 1636.3(h) under
Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation.
1636.3(f)(2) Temporary Suspension of
an Essential Function(s)
The Commission received numerous
comments regarding the definition of
‘‘qualified’’ with regard to the temporary
suspension of essential function(s), the
definition of ‘‘temporary,’’ the definition
of ‘‘in the near future,’’ how different
periods of temporary suspension of
essential function(s) should be
considered, whether more than one
essential function can be suspended,
and the meaning of ‘‘can be reasonably
accommodated.’’
Preliminarily, it is important to
emphasize that the definition of
‘‘qualified’’ that includes the temporary
suspension of an essential function is
taken directly from the text of the
statute. It is not a creation of the
Commission, and the Commission could
not ignore it or read it out of the statute,
as some comments suggested. Second,
112 The Commission notes that ‘‘mitigating
measures’’ for the purposes of the PWFA are not the
same as ‘‘mitigation measures’’ taken as part of
occupational safety and health which refer to
actions taken by employers. See, e.g., U.S. Dep’t of
Health & Hum. Servs., Ctrs. for Disease Control &
Prevention, Nat’l Inst. for Occupational Safety &
Health, Hierarchy of Controls (Jan. 17, 2023),
https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/hierarchy/
default.html.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29116

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

as noted in the NPRM, this definition of
‘‘qualified’’ is relevant only when an
employee cannot perform one or more
essential functions of the job in
question, with or without a reasonable
accommodation, due to a known
limitation. It is not relevant in any other
circumstance. If the employee can
perform the essential functions of the
position with or without a reasonable
accommodation, the first definition of
‘‘qualified’’ applies (i.e., able to do the
job with or without a reasonable
accommodation). Third, this definition
is relevant solely to determining
whether an employee is ‘‘qualified.’’ An
employer may still defend the failure to
provide a reasonable accommodation
based on undue hardship. Thus, the
Commission responds to concerns
regarding the possible disruption of
production or scheduling or difficulties
in accommodating the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
that a certain employer may face in the
discussion of undue hardship (in the
preamble in section 1636.3(j)(3) Undue
Hardship—Temporary Suspension of an
Essential Function(s)) rather than in the
discussion of the definition of
‘‘qualified.’’

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(f)(2)(i) Temporary
The Commission received several
comments regarding the definition of
‘‘temporary.’’ Some asserted that the
Commission’s definition was subsumed
by the definition of ‘‘in the near future,’’
while others argued that the definitions
of ‘‘temporary’’ and ‘‘in the near future’’
should be the same. The Commission
has not changed the definition of
‘‘temporary.’’ As Congress set out two
terms (‘‘temporary’’ and ‘‘in the near
future’’), the Commission should define
both and not assume that they are the
same. The definition that the
Commission proposed in the NPRM for
‘‘temporary’’ is consistent with the
dictionary definition of this term and
the legislative history of the
provision.113
1636.3(f)(2)(ii) In the Near Future
The Commission’s proposed
definition of ‘‘in the near future’’ had
four parts: (1) how long this would be
for a current pregnancy (generally 40
weeks); (2) how long this should be for
conditions other than a current
pregnancy (generally 40 weeks); (3) how
leave should not count in the
determination of the time for which an
essential function(s) is temporarily
suspended; and (4) how to address
successive periods of suspension of
essential function(s). As discussed

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Definition of ‘‘In the Near
Future’’
The NPRM proposed that for both a
current pregnancy and conditions other
than a current pregnancy it would be
presumed that the employee could
perform the essential functions of the
position ‘‘in the near future’’ if they
could do so within generally 40 weeks.
Many comments supported the idea
that for a current pregnancy, an
employee would be considered
qualified if they could perform the
essential function(s) generally within 40
weeks of the suspension of the essential
function(s). As these comments pointed
out, this would allow a pregnant
employee the ability to continue
working and earning a paycheck during
their pregnancy, even if due to a known
limitation they had to temporarily
suspend an essential function(s). As one
comment noted, a shorter time could
lead to ‘‘dangerous and perverse
consequences’’ such as employees
‘‘saving up’’ their ability to request the
temporary suspension of essential
function(s), leading to potential risks to
their health or the health of their
pregnancy early in the pregnancy, or
employees being temporarily excused
from essential function(s) early in their
pregnancy only to have to resume them
later in their pregnancy in order to keep
earning a paycheck.114
Several comments argued against the
definition of ‘‘generally 40 weeks’’ for a
current pregnancy, stating that such a
long time was not within the intent of
Congress, was outside the scope of the
Commission’s regulatory authority, and
was not in keeping with how courts
have defined this term in cases
regarding leave and the ADA.
For conditions other than a current
pregnancy, including post-pregnancy,
the NPRM also proposed ‘‘in the near
future’’ to mean generally 40 weeks.
Several comments, based on the health
care studies cited in the NPRM,
recommended that for post-pregnancy
reasons the definition of ‘‘in the near
future’’ should be 1 year. These
comments also recommended that the
definition of ‘‘in the near future’’ for
lactation-related accommodations that
require the temporary suspension of an
essential function(s) be 2 years, based
on the recommendation of the American
Academy of Pediatrics.
114 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98298, A Better
Balance 29–30 (Oct. 10, 2023).

113 88 FR 54777.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

below, the Commission is maintaining
the provisions in the NPRM for issues
1, 3, and 4.

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00022

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Other comments pointed out that
although pregnancy has a generally
accepted length, other conditions do
not. As a result, these comments
asserted, an individualized assessment,
akin to when a person with a disability
is having surgery and then must go on
leave, is more appropriate. Other
comments suggested that the definition
should be less than 6 months, based on
an ADA case cited in the House Report
on the PWFA.115
In the final rule, the Commission has
changed the provision in the regulation
defining ‘‘in the near future’’ at
§ 1636.3(f)(2)(ii) so that the
determination will be made on a caseby-case basis. This determination,
however, includes the concept from the
NPRM’s definition of ‘‘in the near
future,’’ which explained that, if the
employee is pregnant, it is assumed that
the employee could perform the
essential function(s) in the near future
because they could perform the
essential function(s) within generally 40
weeks of their suspension.
The Commission is retaining
‘‘generally 40 weeks’’ 116 in the final
regulation’s definition of ‘‘in the near
future’’ for pregnant employees for
several reasons. First, one of the
purposes of the PWFA is to provide
pregnant employees with the ability to
keep working while they are pregnant in
order to protect their economic security
as well as their health and the health of
their pregnancy. Given the established
length of pregnancy, this goal cannot be
met if the employee is not considered
qualified simply because they have to
suspend an essential function(s) for
generally 40 weeks. Second, Congress
did not provide a definition for ‘‘in the
near future’’ but did give the
Commission rulemaking authority for
the statute.117 Defining terms within a
statute that have not been defined by
Congress is well within the rulemaking
authority of the agency directed by the
law to write rules for it.118 Furthermore,
115 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 28 (citing
Robert v. Bd. of Cnty. Comm’rs of Brown Cnty., 691
F.3d 1211, 1218 (10th Cir. 2012)). However, the
Commission notes that the House Report does not
assign a definition to ‘‘in the near future.’’ Although
Robert notes an Eighth Circuit case that found that
a 6-month leave request ‘‘was too long to be a
reasonable accommodation,’’ it stated that with
respect to the durational element of in the ‘‘near
future,’’ ‘‘this court has not specified how near that
future must be’’ and declined to address whether a
more than 6-month accommodation ‘‘exceeded
reasonable durational bounds.’’ Robert, 691 F.3d at
1218.
116 One comment noted that pregnancy can last
42 weeks or longer. To account for this, the EEOC
is using the phrase ‘‘generally 40 weeks.’’
117 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a).
118 See AT&T Corp. v. Iowa Utils. Bd., 525 U.S.
366, 397 (1999) (‘‘Congress is well aware that the

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

as explained below, courts have
generally determined that indefinite
amounts of time cannot be ‘‘in the near
future.’’ Because pregnancy by
definition is not indefinite, defining ‘‘in
the near future’’ to be the length of a
pregnancy is consistent with the views
of courts and with the purpose of the
PWFA.
Those who opposed generally 40
weeks as the definition of ‘‘in the near
future’’ for pregnant employees did not
explain how a shorter definition would
impact pregnant employees or why the
definition should change from
workplace to workplace, given the
established length of pregnancy. Given
that there is a history of employers
failing to provide pregnant employees
light duty positions to the severe
detriment of those employees, even after
the Supreme Court’s decision in Young
v. United Parcel Service,119 and
Congress’ awareness of this problem,120
the Commission believes it is necessary
to define ‘‘in the near future’’ for the
PWFA’s second definition of
‘‘qualified’’ as the full length of a
pregnancy. The Commission agrees with
comments stating that a shorter period
of time could create situations where an
employee continues to perform an
essential function(s) in order to save
time when they are not required to
perform the essential function(s) for
later in their pregnancy or following
childbirth, thus imperiling their health
or the health of the pregnancy, or where
an employee is forced to return to the
performance of an essential function(s)
later in their pregnancy, despite the
health risks. The Commission reiterates
that this rule does not mean that a
pregnant employee is automatically
entitled to the temporary suspension of
one or more essential functions for 40
weeks, or that the employee will need
the suspension of one or more essential
functions for 40 weeks. The temporary
suspension must be able to be
reasonably accommodated, and the
ambiguities it chooses to produce in a statute will
be resolved by the implementing agency.’’); Smiley
v. Citibank (South Dakota), N.A., 517 U.S. 735,
740–41 (1996) (‘‘[T]hat Congress, when it left
ambiguity in a statute meant for implementation by
an agency, understood that the ambiguity would be
resolved, first and foremost, by the agency, and
desired the agency (rather than the courts) to
possess whatever degree of discretion the ambiguity
allows.’’); Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Nat. Res. Def.
Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 843 (1984) (‘‘The power
of an administrative agency to administer a
congressionally created . . . program necessarily
requires the formulation of policy and the making
of rules to fill any gap left, implicitly or explicitly,
by Congress.’’) (omission in original) (citation
omitted).
119 575 U.S. 206; see, e.g., EEOC v. Wal-Mart
Stores E., L.P., 46 F.4th 587 (7th Cir. 2022); Legg v.
Ulster Cnty., 820 F.3d 67 (2d Cir. 2016).
120 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 14–17.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

employer retains the ability to establish
that the reasonable accommodation
causes an undue hardship.
The Commission agrees that there
should not be a presumptively
consistent measure of the term ‘‘in the
near future’’ for issues other than
current pregnancy. The physical or
mental conditions related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
faced by employees other than those
who are currently pregnant certainly
may be serious and may, in some cases,
mean that an employee may seek to
have one or more essential functions of
the job temporarily suspended. Unlike a
current pregnancy, however, there is not
a consistent measure of how long these
diverse conditions generally will last or,
thus, of what ‘‘in the near future’’ might
mean in these instances.
In explaining the inclusion of this
additional definition of ‘‘qualified,’’ the
House Report analogized the suspension
of an essential function under the
PWFA to cases under the ADA
regarding leave.121 Thus, ADA leave
cases provide some helpful guideposts
for employers and employees to
understand this term in the context of
whether an employee is ‘‘qualified’’
under the PWFA in situations not
involving a current pregnancy. First, an
employee who needs indefinite leave
(that is, leave for a period of time that
they cannot reasonably estimate under
the circumstances) cannot perform
essential job functions ‘‘in the near
future.’’ 122 Similarly, a request to
indefinitely suspend an essential
function(s) cannot reasonably be
considered to meet the standard of an
employee who could perform the
essential function(s) ‘‘in the near
future.’’ However, the Commission
notes that the temporary suspension of
an essential function(s) is not
‘‘indefinite’’ simply because the
employee cannot pinpoint the exact
date when they expect to be able to
perform the essential function(s) or can
provide only an estimated range of
dates.123 Nor do these circumstances
121 Id. at 27–28.
122 Id.; see also, e.g., Herrmann v. Salt Lake City
Corp., 21 F.4th 666, 676–77 (10th Cir. 2021);
Cisneros v. Wilson, 226 F.3d 1113, 1129 (10th Cir.
2000), overruled on other grounds by Bd. of Trs. of
Univ. of Ala. v. Garrett, 531 U.S. 356 (2001).
123 See, e.g., Randall v. Smith & Edwards Co.,
1:20–CV–00183, 2023 WL 3742818, at *33–*34 (D.
Utah May 31, 2023) (determining that the employee,
who requested leave to undergo liver transplant
surgery, presented enough evidence to allow a
reasonable jury to conclude that his leave request
was not indefinite where evidence indicated that
the employer understood that he could undergo the
transplant ‘‘any day’’ and ‘‘would return to work
within, at most, 12 weeks of his surgery’’); Ellis v.
Salt Lake City Corp., 2:17–CV–00245, 2023 WL

PO 00000

Frm 00023

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29117

mean that the employee cannot perform
the job’s essential functions ‘‘in the near
future.’’ 124
Beyond an agreement that an
indefinite amount of time does not meet
the standard of ‘‘in the near future,’’
courts’ definitions of how long a period
of leave may be under the ADA and still
be a reasonable accommodation (thus,
allowing the individual to remain
qualified) vary.125 The Commission
2742756, at *11–*12 (D. Utah Mar. 31, 2023)
(concluding that the employee’s request to remain
on leave until the appeal of her demotion was
resolved was not a request for indefinite leave, as
she ‘‘provided a general timeframe for her return in
the near future’’), appeal filed (10th Cir. May 2,
2023); Johnson v. Del. Cnty. Cmty. Coll., 2:15–CV–
01310, 2015 WL 8316624, at *1, *5 (E.D. Pa. Dec.
9, 2015) (determining that a custodian, who was on
medical leave for nearly 5 months due to a knee
injury and requested ‘‘a brief extension of medical
leave’’ to undergo surgery and physical therapy,
‘‘did not request an indefinite leave’’); Criado v.
IBM Corp., 145 F.3d 437, 443–44 (1st Cir. 1998)
(concluding that an employee’s request for
additional leave to ‘‘allow her physician to design
an effective treatment program’’ with no specific
return date given could be a reasonable
accommodation); Graves v. Finch Pryun & Co., 457
F.3d 181, 185–86 (2d Cir. 2006) (reasoning that an
employee’s request ‘‘for ‘more time’ to get a doctor’s
appointment’’ that would take ‘‘maybe a couple
weeks’’ was not a request for indefinite leave).
124 The fact that an exact date is not necessary is
supported by the definition in the statute, which
requires that the essential function(s) ‘‘could’’ be
performed in the near future. 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(6)(B).
125 See, e.g., Robert, 691 F.3d at 1218 (citing a
case in which a 6-month leave request was too long
to be a reasonable accommodation but declining to
address whether, in the instant case, a further
exemption following the 6-month temporary
accommodation at issue would exceed ‘‘reasonable
durational bounds’’) (citing Epps v. City of Pine
Lawn, 353 F.3d 588, 593 (8th Cir. 2003)); see also
Blanchet v. Charter Commc’ns, LLC, 27 F.4th 1221,
1225–26, 1230–31 (6th Cir. 2022) (determining that
a pregnant employee who developed postpartum
depression and requested a 5-month leave after her
initial return date and was fired after requesting an
additional 60 days of leave could still be
‘‘qualified,’’ as additional leave could have been a
reasonable accommodation); Cleveland v. Fed.
Express Corp., 83 F. App’x 74, 76–81 (6th Cir. 2003)
(declining ‘‘to adopt a bright-line rule defining a
maximum duration of leave that can constitute a
reasonable accommodation’’ and determining that a
6-month medical leave for a pregnant employee
with systemic lupus could be a reasonable
accommodation); Garcia-Ayala v. Lederle
Parenterals, Inc., 212 F.3d 638, 641–42, 646–49 (1st
Cir. 2000) (reversing the district court’s finding that
a secretary was not a ‘‘qualified individual’’ under
the ADA because additional months of unpaid leave
could be a reasonable accommodation, even though
she had already taken over year of medical leave
for breast cancer treatment, and rejecting per se
rules as to when additional medical leave is
unreasonable); Nunes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 164
F.3d 1243, 1245–1247 (9th Cir. 1999) (holding that,
because extending leave to 9 months to treat a
fainting disorder could be a reasonable
accommodation, an employee’s inability to work
during that period of leave did not automatically
render her unqualified); Cayetano v. Fed. Express
Corp., No. 1:19–CV–10619, 2022 WL 2467735, at
*1–*2, *4–*7 (S.D.N.Y. July 6, 2022) (determining
that an employee who underwent shoulder surgery

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29118

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

believes, however, that depending on
the facts of a case ‘‘in the near future’’
may extend beyond the 6-month limit
suggested by some comments under the
PWFA for three reasons.
First, what constitutes ‘‘in the near
future’’ may differ depending on factors
including, but not limited to, the known
limitation and the employee’s position.
For example, an employee whose
essential job functions require lifting
during only the summer months would
remain qualified even if unable to lift
during a 7-month period over the fall,
winter, and spring months because the
employee could perform the essential
function ‘‘in the near future’’ (in this
case, as soon as the employee was
required to perform that function).
Second, the determination of whether
the employee could resume the essential
function(s) of their position in the near
future is only one aspect of establishing
that an employee is qualified despite
not being able to perform an essential
function(s). If the temporary suspension
cannot be reasonably accommodated or
if the temporary suspension causes an
undue hardship, the employer is not
required to provide a reasonable
accommodation. Third, as detailed in
the NPRM, especially in the first year
after giving birth, employees may
experience serious health issues related
to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions that may prevent
them from performing the essential
function(s) of their positions.126
Accommodating these situations and
allowing employees to stay employed is
one of the key purposes of the PWFA.
To assist employers and employees in
making this determination, the
Commission has added several
examples in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(f)(2) Qualified
Employee—Temporary Suspension of
could be ‘‘qualified’’ because 6 months of leave is
not per se unreasonable as a matter of law); Durrant
v. Chemical/Chase Bank/Manhattan Bank, N.A., 81
F. Supp. 2d 518, 519, 521–22 (S.D.N.Y. 2000)
(concluding that an employee who was on leave for
nearly 1 year due to a leg injury and extended her
leave to treat a psychiatric condition could be
‘‘qualified’’ under the ADA with the
accommodation of additional leave of reasonable
duration).The Commission is aware of and
disagrees with ADA cases that held, for example,
that 2 to 3 months of leave following a 12-week
FMLA period was presumptively unreasonable as
an accommodation. See, e.g., Severson v. Heartland
Woodcraft, Inc., 872 F.3d 476, 481 (7th Cir. 2017).
126 See Susanna Trost et al., U.S. Dep’t of Health
& Hum. Servs., Ctrs. For Disease Control &
Prevention, Pregnancy-Related Deaths: Data from
Maternal Mortality Review Committees in 36 U.S.
States, 2017–2019 (2022), https://www.cdc.gov/
reproductivehealth/maternal-mortality/erase-mm/
data-mmrc.html (stating that 53% of pregnancyrelated deaths occurred from one week to one year
after delivery, and 30% occurred one- and one-half
months to one year postpartum).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

an Essential Function(s) regarding ‘‘in
the near future’’ and non-pregnancy
conditions.
Additionally, the Commission
disagrees that the terms ‘‘temporary’’
and ‘‘in the near future’’ should be
defined using the definition of
‘‘transitory’’ under the ADA.127
Congress knew of this definition but
decided not to incorporate it into the
PWFA and used different terms
(‘‘temporary’’ and ‘‘in the near future,’’
not ‘‘transitory’’).
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Leave Not Being Part of the
Calculation of the Temporary
Suspension of an Essential Function(s)
The Commission did not receive
many comments regarding whether
leave should be counted as part of the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for the
suspension of an essential function(s).
Those comments it did receive
supported the Commission’s view that it
should not be counted; the Commission
has maintained that position.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Resetting the Clock for the
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function(s)
The Commission received several
comments regarding the proposal that
the clock for determining ‘‘in the near
future’’ should reset after childbirth.
Some comments supported this for the
reasons set out in the NPRM,
specifically, that a pregnant employee
cannot know whether or for how long
they will need the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
after they give birth. Further, not
resetting the clock could create the same
issues discussed above of creating
dangerous or perverse incentives for
employees to ‘‘save’’ the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
for later in their pregnancy or postpregnancy, even when it could lead to
potential risks to their health or the
health of their pregnancy. Conversely,
several comments argued that allowing
the clock to reset would permit
employees to ‘‘stack’’ the temporary
suspension of essential functions to get
more than 40 weeks of an essential
function(s) suspended. Given that the
definition of ‘‘in the near future’’ for
non-pregnancy issues has changed, this
is less of a concern for the final rule.
Additionally, as stated above,
employees are not automatically granted
40 weeks of suspension of an essential
function(s) during pregnancy under the
regulation. Rather, they are merely
considered ‘‘qualified.’’ Many

employees will need less than 40 weeks
of a temporary suspension of an
essential function(s).
The Commission also received
comments recommending that resetting
the clock be added to the regulation
itself. Because this general rule—that
the determination of ‘‘qualified’’ is
made at the time of the employment
decision 128—applies to all
accommodations, the Commission has
not added it to this part of the
regulation. The Commission has
included this general rule in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(f) Qualified Employee and has
added a specific reference to when
essential functions are being
temporarily suspended to state that
determining ‘‘in the near future’’ should
start at the time of the employment
decision in the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(f)(2)(ii) In the Near
Future.
The Commission also received
comments interpreting the statute to say
that only one essential function could
be temporarily suspended in a given
pregnancy. The Commission disagrees.
First, the Commission notes that in
interpreting acts of Congress, ‘‘words
importing the singular apply to several
persons, parties, or things’’ unless the
context indicates otherwise.129 Further,
such a rule would undercut the purpose
of the PWFA and lead to lengthy delays
for litigation about what specific
essential function was being suspended
and whether it was the same or a
different function. Such a rule also does
not reflect that a pregnant employee
may need more than one essential
function suspended or different
essential functions suspended at
different times.
1636.3(f)(2)(iii) Can Be Reasonably
Accommodated
The Commission received a few
comments on its proposed definition of
‘‘can be reasonably accommodated’’ that
claimed that the NPRM had conflated
this provision with undue hardship.
Other comments suggested that this
provision required a new definition,
with a lower standard than ‘‘undue
hardship,’’ that a covered entity could
meet to show that the temporary
suspension of the essential function(s)
could not be reasonably accommodated.
The Commission disagrees with these
comments and is retaining the
definition of this section set forth in the
NPRM. The Commission expects that
the language that the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
128 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(m).

127 42 U.S.C. 12102(3)(B).

PO 00000

Frm 00024

Fmt 4701

129 1 U.S.C. 1.

Sfmt 4700

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

‘‘can be reasonably accommodated’’ will
be interpreted similarly to the idea that
an individual is ‘‘qualified’’ if they can
do the job with or without a reasonable
accommodation. If, under the first
definition of ‘‘qualified,’’ an employee
cannot perform the essential functions
of the position without a reasonable
accommodation, and there is no
reasonable accommodation, the
employee is not qualified. Similarly, if
the temporary suspension of the
essential function(s) cannot be
‘‘reasonably accommodated,’’ the
employee is not qualified. Thus, the
definition of ‘‘can be reasonably
accommodated’’ provides suggested
means by which the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
can be reasonably accommodated.
Whether granting the accommodation
would impose undue hardship on the
operation of the business of the covered
entity is a separate analysis.130 The
Commission has removed the reference
to undue hardship from this section in
the Interpretive Guidance in order to
avoid any confusion.
The Commission made a few changes
to the examples in this section in the
Interpretive Guidance. The Commission
deleted former Example #7 from this
section. In former Examples #8 and #9
(now Examples #1 and #2), the
Commission added: facts to clarify that
there is work for the employees to
accomplish; the phrase ‘‘affected by, or
arising out of’’ after ‘‘related to’’; and
that the employees need an
accommodation ‘‘due to’’ their
limitation. The Commission removed
the sentences regarding undue hardship
in order to focus the examples on the
issue of ‘‘qualified.’’ The Commission
also added three additional examples to
this section.
1636.3(g) Essential Functions
The NPRM adopted the definition of
‘‘essential functions’’ contained in the
ADA regulation and sought comment on
whether there were additional factors
that should be considered in
determining whether a function is
‘‘essential’’ for the purposes of the
PWFA. Several comments suggested
clarifications or departures from the
definition of ‘‘essential functions’’ set
forth in the ADA. These suggestions
included proposed additions to the
overall definition of ‘‘essential
functions’’; a request to add a factor to
130 See, e.g., Barnett, 535 U.S. at 401–02
(describing ADA accommodations cases where, to
defeat summary judgment, a worker must show that
the accommodation ‘‘seems reasonable on its face’’;
after such a showing, the employer must show
specific circumstances to prove an undue
hardship).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

§ 1636.3(g)(1) to further explain when a
particular function is ‘‘essential’’; and
requests to delete, add, combine, or
reorganize the factors in § 1636.3(g)(2)
that can establish whether a particular
function is ‘‘essential.’’
First, a few comments suggested
adding language to § 1636.3(g) that
would define essential functions as
discrete tasks and clarify that essential
functions are not conditions of
employment regarding when, where,
and how discrete tasks are performed.
The Commission declines to adopt this
proposal. The term ‘‘essential
functions’’ in the PWFA is the same
term used in the ADA, and therefore the
definition of ‘‘essential functions’’ in the
ADA regulation is instructive.131 The
Commission concludes that the
suggested departure from the language
and definition used in the ADA
regulation is not appropriate. Although
in the Commission’s view, conditions of
employment that are completely
divorced from any job duties (e.g., a
requirement of ‘‘regular attendance’’ or
‘‘in-person work’’) are not essential
functions in and of themselves, certain
essential functions may need to be
performed in a particular manner, time,
or location.132 For example, a
neurosurgeon hired to perform surgeries
may have to perform those surgeries in
a sterile operating room; a receptionist
hired to greet clients and answer calls
during business hours may need to be
available at certain times of day; and a
truck driver responsible for transporting
hazardous materials may need to use a
specific type of vehicle. The final
regulation, therefore, maintains the
ADA regulatory language from 29 CFR
1630.2(n)(1).133
Second, the Commission received
comments requesting that it add a factor
to those listed in § 1636.3(g)(1)
examining whether the function was
essential during the limited time for
which the accommodation is needed. As
described in the next paragraph, the
Commission has added this
consideration to § 1636.3(g)(2). Because
the list of factors in § 1636.3(g)(1) is
non-exhaustive, the Commission has
retained the factors in § 1636.3(g)(1).
Third, the Commission received
comments requesting modification,
addition, reorganization, or deletion of
factors in § 1636.3(g)(2) that can be used
to show a function is ‘‘essential.’’
Because the factors in § 1636.3(g)(2) are
131 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 28.
132 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at Questions 22 &
34.
133 For completeness, the Commission has added
‘‘with a known limitation under the PWFA’’ after
the word ‘‘employee’’ in the regulation.

PO 00000

Frm 00025

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29119

not exhaustive, the Commission
declines to delete any factors, as this
could incorrectly suggest that those
factors are not relevant to PWFA
accommodations. Additionally, the
Commission declines to reorder any
factors to emphasize their importance,
as the factors in § 1636.3(g)(2) are not set
forth in order of importance and the
significance of any particular factor will
vary by case. However, in response to
comments that essential functions may
change over time (or even by season),
and that variations in essential
functions are particularly important
where the need for accommodation is
temporary (as is the case for most
known limitations), the Commission has
made changes to § 1636.3(g)(2)(iii) to
clarify that seasonal or other temporal
variations in essential functions should
be considered.
Some comments asked for
clarification on whether the employer’s
judgment on essential functions is given
priority and whether an employer’s
framing of the essential job functions
can undermine or limit an individual’s
right to accommodation under the
PWFA. First, as in the ADA, an
employer’s judgment as to which
functions are ‘‘essential’’ is given due
consideration among various types of
relevant evidence but is not
dispositive.134 Therefore, evidence that
is contrary to the employer’s judgment
may be presented and used to
demonstrate the employer’s judgment is
incorrect. To this point, the Commission
also has revised the language in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(g) Essential Functions to
reinforce that the listed factors in
§ 1636.3(g)(2) are non-exhaustive and
fact-specific, which further underscores
that no single factor is dispositive, that
not all factors apply in each case, and
that additional factors may be
considered.
Finally, some comments questioned
the effect of a temporary suspension of
an essential function(s) as a reasonable
accommodation on future
determinations of whether the function
was essential. Temporary suspension of
an essential function(s) as a reasonable
accommodation pursuant to the PWFA
does not mean that the function(s) is no
longer essential. Whether something is
an essential function(s) remains a factspecific determination, and the
employer’s temporary suspension of a
job function(s) does not bar the
employer from contending that the
function(s) is essential for other
accommodation requests in the future.
134 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix 1630.2(n).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29120

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

1636.3(h) Reasonable
Accommodation—Generally
1636.3(h)(1) Definition of Reasonable
Accommodation
The Commission received very few
comments regarding the definition of
reasonable accommodation, which uses
the language from the ADA with certain
changes to account for the differences in
statutes. The Commission is retaining
the definition of reasonable
accommodation from the NPRM, with
the following technical edits to
§ 1636.3(h)(1): insertion of the term
‘‘qualified’’ in the definition of
reasonable accommodation relating to
applicants; 135 and removal of the term
‘‘qualified’’ and addition of the phrase
‘‘as are enjoyed by its other similarly
situated employees without known
limitations’’ in the definition of
reasonable accommodation related to
benefits and privileges of
employment.136 These technical edits
are necessary so that the definition of
reasonable accommodation parallels the
ADA definition, as required by the
PWFA.
The Commission also has moved the
explanation of how to request a
reasonable accommodation, which was
formerly part of § 1636.3(d), to
§ 1636.3(h)(2). As a result, the parts of
§ 1636.3(h) have been renumbered so
that the definition of reasonable
accommodation is at § 1636.3(h)(1)(i)
through (iv), and information regarding
the interactive process is located at
§ 1636.3(h)(3).137

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a
Reasonable Accommodation
The final rule contains a new section,
§ 1636.3(h)(2), that explains how an
employee may request a reasonable
accommodation. This information was
proposed to appear at § 1636.3(d).
The Commission received several
comments regarding this section when it
135 As under the ADA, the term ‘‘qualified’’ in
relation to applicants that are entitled to reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA refers to whether
the applicant meets the initial requirements for the
job in order to be considered and not whether the
applicant is able to perform the essential functions
of the position with or without an accommodation.
See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at Question 13,
Example A and B.
136 As under the ADA, reasonable accommodation
to enable employees to enjoy equal benefits and
privileges under the PWFA does not turn on
whether an employee is qualified but on whether
the benefit or privilege is available to those who are
similarly situated. See 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(iii).
137 The Commission has not included the section
from the proposed appendix ‘‘Additions to the
Definition of Reasonable Accommodation’’ in the
Interpretive Guidance because its explanation of the
PWFA and ADA rule regarding the definition of
reasonable accommodation is not necessary for the
final Interpretive Guidance.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

was part of the ‘‘Communicated to the
Employer’’ definition in the NPRM.
First, comments expressed concern that
the Commission’s original language
(that this was the process to ‘‘request’’
a reasonable accommodation) would
add a requirement that employees
phrase this as a ‘‘request’’ and that
employees may not know that they have
the right to make such a request. The
Commission declines to change this
provision. The examples in the NPRM
(now Examples #6 to #11 in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a
Reasonable Accommodation) do not
require that the communication be
phrased as a request. Additionally,
‘‘request for accommodation’’ is the
language the Commission uses in its
ADA guidance,138 and the Commission
believes that changing the language on
this point would create confusion.
However, to respond to the comments,
the Commission has added in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a
Reasonable Accommodation that a
request for a reasonable accommodation
need not be formulated as a ‘‘request.’’
Second, many comments suggested
alternative language to proposed
§ 1636.3(d)(3)(i) and (ii)
(§ 1636.3(h)(2)(i) and (ii) in the final
rule), stating that the emphasis should
be that the limitation necessitates a
change (rather than the employee
needing a change), that the rule should
require a limitation ‘‘or’’ needing a
change (rather than ‘‘and’’), or that
communicating the limitation was
sufficient. The Commission declines to
make these changes. First, the
Commission does not think it is
appropriate or accurate to require that
the limitation ‘‘necessitates’’ a change;
this may increase the burden on what an
employee would have to show and
would complicate what should be
simple communication. Second, while
the Commission agrees that the statute
provides for accommodations for known
limitations, having the process start
simply because the employee
communicated a known limitation
could lead to situations where the
accommodation process begins when it
was not the employee’s intention, or it
could lead to covered entities assuming
that an accommodation is necessary
which could result in violations of 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2).
Finally, some comments
recommended including that the
employee must connect the need for the
change with the limitation. The
138 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at Question 1.

PO 00000

Frm 00026

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Commission agrees with this change
and has added that idea to § 1636.3(h)(2)
(‘‘needs an adjustment or change at
work due to the limitation’’). As with
the ADA and as shown in Examples #6
to #11, this is a simple communication
that does not require specific words.
The Commission also has moved the
point that was in § 1636.3(b) in the
proposed regulation—that the employee
need not mention a specific medical
condition from the list in § 1636.3(b), or
indeed any medical condition, or use
medical terms—to § 1636.3(h)(2)(ii) so
that all of the information about
requesting an accommodation is in one
place.
Many comments addressed with
whom the employee must communicate
in order to start the process. As with the
definition of ‘‘Communicated to the
Employer’’ (§ 1636.3(d)), the employer
should permit an employee to request
an accommodation through multiple
avenues and means. Thus, the
individuals at the covered entity to
whom an employee may communicate
to start the reasonable accommodation
process are the same as those in
§ 1636.3(d), and the Interpretive
Guidance language for that provision
applies to requesting a reasonable
accommodation as well. Some
comments recommended against
allowing for a broad range of
individuals at the covered entity who
could receive such requests because
those who receive such requests require
training; other comments stated that an
employer should be able through its
policy to limit the individuals who can
receive such a request. The Commission
did not make changes to support these
views because the steps to request a
reasonable accommodation should not
be made more difficult and the
individuals identified in § 1636.3(d)
should be able to receive and direct the
requests if they are not able to grant
them independently.
Several comments also addressed
whether the employer could require the
process to start by the employee filling
in a form and whether, if the employer
had a process, the employee was
required to follow it so that a request
would be considered only when made
to the entity identified in the employer’s
policy. The Commission did not adopt
either of these views. First, requiring an
employee to create a written request or
to follow a specific provision to begin
the reasonable accommodation process
is contrary to the idea that this should
not be a difficult or burdensome task for
employees. Second, as one comment
pointed out, some employees, such as
those facing intimate partner violence,
may be cautious or afraid of putting into

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
writing their need for an
accommodation.139 Third, many of the
limitations and accommodations under
the PWFA will be small or minor; the
Commission expects that most
accommodations will be provided
following nothing more than a
conversation or email between the
employee and their supervisor, and
there will not be any other forms or
processes. If an employer does have a
process to confirm what was stated in
the initial request and that process uses
a form, the form should be a simple one
that does not deter the employee from
making the request and does not delay
the provision of an accommodation.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to
Health Due to the Known Limitation
First, the Commission received
numerous comments recommending
that the amelioration of pain or risk be
added to the list in § 1636.3(h) for the
definition of the term ‘‘reasonable
accommodation.’’ The Commission is
not making this change. The statute at
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) states that the term
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ shall have
the same meaning under the PWFA as
it has in the ADA and the regulation
under the PWFA. Section 1636.3(h) uses
the same definition as in the ADA and
adds one paragraph regarding the
temporary suspension of essential
functions, which is necessary pursuant
to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6). As explained in
the NPRM and in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(h) under
Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to
Health Due to the Known Limitation,
accommodations to alleviate increased
pain or risk fit under the current
paragraphs in § 1636.3(h)(1)(i) through
(iv).140 This includes situations where
an employee can do the essential
functions of the position, and the
accommodation is to alleviate increased
pain or risk due to the known
limitation.141 This is because the
139 Am. Coll. Of Obstetricians & Gynecologists,
Comm. Opinion No. 518, Intimate Partner Violence
(Feb. 2012; reaff’d 2022), https://www.acog.org/
clinical/clinical-guidance/committee-opinion/
articles/2012/02/intimate-partner-violence
(‘‘Approximately 324,000 pregnant women are
abused each year in the United States. . . . [T]he
severity of violence may sometimes escalate during
pregnancy or the postpartum period.’’).
140 88 FR 54727 n.85 (‘‘Depending on the facts of
the case, the accommodation sought will allow the
employee to apply for the position, to perform the
essential functions of the job, to enjoy equal
benefits and privileges of employment, or allow the
temporary suspension of an essential function of
the job.’’).
141 Many Federal circuit courts to have
considered this issue have agreed that under the
ADA, an accommodation needed to enable an
employee to work without pain or risk to health
may be required, even if the employee can perform
the essential job functions without the

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

reasonable accommodations operate to
‘‘remove[ ] or alleviate[ ]’’ a covered
individual’s ‘‘barriers to the equal
employment opportunity,’’ which may
include making reasonable
accommodations that mitigate the
increased pain or a health risk a
qualified employee experiences related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions when performing
their job.142
Second, the Commission received
several comments suggesting an edit to
§ 1636.3(i)(2) in the proposed
regulation, which listed examples of
possible reasonable accommodations.
The comments pointed out that
‘‘adjustments to allow an employee or
applicant to work without increased
accommodation. See Burnett v. Ocean Props., Ltd.,
987 F.3d 57, 68–69 (1st Cir. 2021) (observing that
the plaintiff’s ability to perform the essential
functions of his job, albeit at the risk of bodily
injury, ‘‘does not necessarily mean he did not
require an accommodation or that his requested
accommodation was unreasonable’’); Bell v.
O’Reilly Auto Enters., LLC, 972 F.3d 21, 24 (1st Cir.
2020) (‘‘An employee who can, with some
difficulty, perform the essential functions of his job
without accommodation remains eligible to request
and receive a reasonable accommodation.’’); Hill v.
Ass’n for Renewal in Educ., 897 F.3d 232, 239 (D.C.
Cir. 2018) (rejecting the argument that no
accommodation was required because the plaintiff
‘‘could perform the essential functions of his job
without accommodation, ‘but not without pain’’’);
Gleed v. AT&T Mobility Servs., 613 F. App’x 535,
538–39 (6th Cir. 2015) (rejecting the argument that
‘‘if Gleed was physically capable of doing his job—
no matter the pain or risk to his health—then it had
no obligation to provide him with any
accommodation, reasonable or not’’); Feist v. La.
Dep’t of Justice, 730 F.3d 450, 453 (5th Cir. 2013)
(‘‘[T]he language of the ADA, and all available
interpretive authority, indicate[s] that’’ ‘‘reasonable
accommodations are not restricted to modifications
that enable performance of essential job
functions.’’); Sanchez v. Vilsack, 695 F.3d 1174,
1182 (10th Cir. 2012) (rejecting the argument that
the Rehabilitation Act requires accommodation
‘‘only if an employee cannot perform the essential
functions of her job’’); Buckingham v. United
States, 998 F.2d 735, 740 (9th Cir. 1993) (stating
that, under the Rehabilitation Act, ‘‘employers are
not relieved of their duty to accommodate when
employees are already able to perform the essential
functions of the job’’). Even cases that have rejected
this idea have done so on a very limited basis. See
Hopman v. Union Pac. R.R., 68 F.4th 394, 402 (8th
Cir. 2023) (refusing to endorse the employer’s
argument that the ADA ‘‘requires employers to
provide reasonable accommodations only when
necessary to enable employees to perform the
essential functions of their jobs’’ in all cases and
observing that the requirement to accommodate will
be fact-specific); Brumfield v. City of Chicago, 735
F.3d 619, 632 (7th Cir. 2013) (holding that ‘‘an
employer need not accommodate a disability that is
irrelevant to an employee’s ability to perform the
essential functions of her job,’’ but not addressing
whether alleviating pain is ‘‘irrelevant’’ to essential
job functions).
142 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9 (‘‘The
reasonable accommodation requirement [under the
ADA] is best understood as a means by which
barriers to the equal employment opportunity of an
individual with a disability are removed or
alleviated.’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00027

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29121

pain or risk to the employee’s or
applicant’s health or the health of the
employee’s or applicant’s pregnancy’’
are the only accommodations listed that
are expressly required to be ‘‘due to the
employee’s or applicant’s known
limitation,’’ even though that is
obviously true for any of the other listed
accommodations. The Commission
agrees and has made this edit.
Third, the Commission received
numerous suggestions of additional
examples to include in this section to
illustrate modifications to alleviate
increased pain or risk. The Commission
has added additional examples and
information in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(h) under
Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to
Health Due to the Known Limitation,
including, as suggested by some
comments, examples involving
exposure to chemicals, commuting,
excessive heat, and contagious diseases.
The Commission also has deleted one
example.
Finally, the Commission received
some comments expressing concern that
the proposed appendix examples’ focus
on what was and what was not related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions would lead to
employers focusing on this issue,
requiring documentation regarding this
issue, and denying accommodations.
These comments also pointed out that,
given pregnancy’s effect on the whole
body, the situations set out in the
examples, especially former Examples
#10 and #13 (now Examples #12 and
#15 in the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(h) under Alleviating
Increased Pain or Risk to Health Due to
the Known Limitation), were unrealistic
and could cause covered entities and
employees to waste time trying to
determine whether a limitation was
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. The Commission
appreciates the concerns raised
regarding these examples. At the same
time, it is important that covered
entities and employees understand the
principles illustrated in the examples so
that voluntary compliance with the
PWFA is maximized. The Commission
has edited these examples to account for
these concerns by, for example,
changing or deleting language regarding
the limitations that in the example may
not have been related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. Finally, in
order to highlight different reasons for
accommodations, the Commission has
changed one of the examples to include
lactation.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29122

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Ensuring That Employees Are Not
Penalized for Using Reasonable
Accommodations
The Commission received many
comments agreeing with the general
principle that covered entities must
ensure that their workplace policies or
practices do not operate to penalize
employees for utilizing accommodations
under the PWFA. Many of these
comments also asked for additional
clarification and examples.
First, numerous comments suggested
that the Commission explicitly state that
the general rule that a covered entity
does not have to waive a production
standard as a reasonable
accommodation does not apply when an
employee has received the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s) as
a reasonable accommodation and the
production standard would normally
apply to the performance of that
function. Applying such a production
standard when the essential function(s)
is temporarily suspended would
penalize the employee for using the
reasonable accommodation. The
Commission agrees and has made this
clarification in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(h) under
Ensuring That Employees Are Not
Penalized for Using Reasonable
Accommodations.
One comment recommended
clarifying that the definition of
‘‘production standards’’ includes not
penalizing an employee for lower
‘‘productivity,’’ ‘‘focus,’’ ‘‘availability,’’
or ‘‘contributions’’ if the employee’s
lower production in those areas is due
to the employee’s reasonable
accommodation. The Commission
agrees. For example, if, as a reasonable
accommodation, an employee is not
working overtime, and ‘‘availability’’ or
‘‘contribution’’ is measured by an
employee’s working overtime, an
employee should not be penalized in
these categories. This concept has been
added to the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(h) under Ensuring That
Employees Are Not Penalized for Using
Reasonable Accommodations.
A few comments noted that in
addition to potentially violating 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) and 2000gg–2(f),
penalizing an employee for using a
reasonable accommodation could
violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), because
by doing so the covered entity would
not be providing an effective
accommodation. The Commission
agrees and has made this change in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h) under Ensuring That
Employees Are Not Penalized for Using
Reasonable Accommodations.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Several comments suggested
examples for this section focusing on
no-fault attendance policies and
electronic productivity monitoring. The
Commission added two examples to this
section and moved Example #30 from
the NPRM (now Example #22) to this
section with some edits. The
Commission also added language to the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h) under Ensuring That
Employees Are Not Penalized for Using
Reasonable Accommodations about the
types of rules that may need to be
considered.
One comment stated that allowing
employers to not pay for break time was,
in effect, penalizing employees for
taking those breaks. For the reasons
explained in the section on leave, the
Commission is adhering to the approach
under the ADA that whether or not
leave or breaks are paid depends on
how the employer normally treats such
time away from work and the
requirements of other laws.
A final set of comments on this issue
requested clarification regarding
whether specific situations would be
seen as penalizing an employee for
using a reasonable accommodation.
Specifically, comments asked whether
pay could be lowered or whether meritbased incentives tied to the performance
of the essential function(s) could be
omitted if the employee was not
performing an essential function(s). One
comment asked whether an employee
could be required to work extra time to
make up for time spent on breaks.
Whether these situations regarding
the temporary suspension of an
essential function(s) would be viewed as
penalizing a qualified employee in
violation of the PWFA depends on
certain factors. As stated in
§ 1636.4(a)(4), if a covered entity is
choosing between accommodations, it
must select the one that provides the
qualified employee with equal
employment opportunity, which
includes no reduction in pay,
advancement, or bonuses. If the only
accommodation available for the
temporary suspension of the essential
function(s) requires the temporary
reassignment of the qualified employee
to a job that pays less, and the
employer’s practice in these situations
is to lower the pay of employees
temporarily assigned to such a position,
the employer may make the temporary
reassignment and the PWFA does not
prohibit the employer from reducing the
qualified employee’s pay. Both
conditions must be true: (1) that there is
no other reasonable accommodation that
does not pose an undue hardship and
(2) that this is the employer’s normal

PO 00000

Frm 00028

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

practice in these situations. Similarly,
an employer could limit bonuses related
to the performance of an essential
function(s) that has been temporarily
suspended if there is not another
accommodation that provides equal
employment opportunity, and this is the
employer’s normal practice in these
situations.
For situations where the reasonable
accommodation is additional breaks, a
qualified employee may be given the
opportunity to make up the additional
time and may choose to do so. However,
if making up the time renders the
accommodation ineffective (for
example, because the breaks are due to
fatigue), the employer may not require
the qualified employee to do so.
Personal Use
The Commission received very
limited comments on this section. The
Commission has made one minor
change to the language in the
Interpretive Guidance for this section
(removing reference to a ‘‘white noise
machine’’).
Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation
The Commission received numerous
comments on its discussion of leave as
a reasonable accommodation, including
requests for clarification regarding the
purpose and length of leave as a
reasonable accommodation, as well as
the application of the undue hardship
standard to leave. Other comments
recommended changes to the rules for
paid leave and the continuation of
health insurance while on leave. Some
suggested that the PWFA explicitly
provide coverage for ‘‘extended leave.’’
As set out in the NPRM, the
Commission has long recognized the use
of leave as a potential reasonable
accommodation under the ADA.143
Leave as a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA can be for any known
limitation and includes leave for health
care and treatment of pregnancy,
childbirth, and related medical
conditions and recovery from
pregnancy, childbirth, and related
medical conditions. The Commission
declines to include the term ‘‘extended
leave’’ in the regulation or Interpretive
Guidance. The amount of leave under
the PWFA depends on the employee
and the known limitation and thus the
term ‘‘extended’’ in this context does
not have a uniform definition. In
response to a few comments, the
Commission has changed the language
in § 1636.3(i)(3)(i) slightly to specifically
provide that leave is available to recover
143 88 FR 54728.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
from any related medical condition.
This was implied by the language in the
NPRM, which stated that leave for
recovery was available and described an
explicitly non-exhaustive list of specific
conditions. The Commission has also
removed the word ‘‘receive’’ before
‘‘unpaid leave’’ in § 1636.3(i)(3)(i) to be
consistent with how it refers to unpaid
leave.
Two groups of comments sought
clarifications regarding leave and undue
hardship. First, some comments agreed
with proposed § 1636.3(i)(3)(iv), which
states that concerns about the length,
frequency, or unpredictable nature of
leave are questions of undue hardship.
However, the comments also suggested
that the Commission make clear that it
is not merely the fact that leave is long,
frequent, or unpredictable that makes it
an undue hardship. Rather, those factors
may be considered to the extent that
they impact the established undue
hardship considerations. Thus, the fact
that leave is unpredictable is not
sufficient—standing alone—to make it
an undue hardship; rather, the employer
would have to show the unpredictable
leave caused significant difficulty or
expense on the operation of the
business. The Commission agrees with
these comments. Because this concept
sets out how undue hardship and leave
should interact, the Commission has
determined that it is more appropriately
discussed in the Interpretive Guidance
rather than the regulation itself. Section
1636.3(i)(3)(iv) has, therefore, been
removed from the regulation and the
issue is instead discussed in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h) under Particular Matters
Regarding Leave as a Reasonable
Accommodation.
The other set of comments regarding
undue hardship stated that the mere fact
that an employee has taken leave should
not be determinative in assessing undue
hardship, but rather the impact of that
leave should be determined by using the
undue hardship factors in § 1636.3(j)(2).
The Commission agrees and has added
this information to the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(h) under
Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation because
proposed § 1636.3(i)(3)(iv) has been
removed from the regulation.
Many comments recommended that,
instead of looking to an employer’s
policies for individuals in similar
situations, paid leave and continuation
of health insurance should be
designated as possible accommodations
under the PWFA. The Commission
declines to make this change. The
current language in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(h) under

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation is the same
as under the ADA. The PWFA at 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(7) provides that the term
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ should
have the same meaning as in the ADA
and the PWFA regulations. Thus, the
Commission is maintaining this
definition.
Finally, a few comments
recommended that a short amount of
leave (e.g., 2 days) could be a reasonable
accommodation while the covered
entity determines what other reasonable
accommodations are possible or during
the interactive process. The response to
this suggestion is discussed in the
preamble in section 1636.3(h) under
Interim Reasonable Accommodations.
All Services and Programs
The Commission received very
limited comments on this section. The
Commission has added language in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h) under All Services and
Programs to clarify that the term ‘‘all
services and programs’’ includes
situations where a qualified employee is
traveling for work and may need, for
example, accommodations at a different
work site.
Interim Reasonable Accommodations
The Commission received numerous
comments regarding interim reasonable
accommodations, including requests to
provide examples of when interim
reasonable accommodations are needed,
recommendations that the provision be
strengthened or made mandatory,
discussion of the provision of leave as
an interim reasonable accommodation,
and suggestions of alternative
definitions for ‘‘interim reasonable
accommodations.’’
Some comments provided helpful
real-world examples of when interim
reasonable accommodations are needed.
For example, one comment stated that
after asking for an accommodation,
some pregnant employees are required
to ‘‘continue to lift, push, and pull
heavy objects’’ and ‘‘drive when not fit
to do so’’ in violation of the
recommendations of their health care
providers as they wait for the decision
about their reasonable accommodation
from their employer.144 The same
comment noted that some employees
have been fired while waiting to hear
whether they can receive a reasonable
accommodation because the employee
cannot do the job without one.145
Another comment described a situation
144 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98479, The

Center for WorkLife Law, at 11 (Oct. 10, 2023).
145 Id. at 2.

PO 00000

Frm 00029

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29123

where an employee was put on leave
after asking for a reasonable
accommodation because the request
occurred on a Friday afternoon, the
employee was scheduled to work on
Sunday, and the staff to address the
provision of reasonable
accommodations were not available
until the beginning of the next week.146
A comment from an organization noted
that employees call their hotline after
weeks of waiting for a response on a
request for an accommodation, and
during that time ‘‘they must continue to
perform duties that put their health or
the health of their pregnancy at risk so
they can earn a paycheck and maintain
their health insurance.’’ 147
The Commission understands the
dilemma facing both employers and
employees in circumstances where the
accommodation is needed immediately
but cannot be provided immediately.
Requiring an employee to take leave
(whether paid or unpaid) in this
situation can be harmful to the
employee, either because it will require
the employee to exhaust their paid leave
or because it will require an employee
to go without income. In the face of
these reasonable reactions to what is,
based on comments received, a common
situation, the Commission has added
information regarding interim
reasonable accommodations to the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h) under Interim Reasonable
Accommodations.
An interim reasonable
accommodation can be used when there
is a delay in providing the reasonable
accommodation. For example, an
interim reasonable accommodation may
be needed when there is a sudden onset
of a known limitation under the PWFA,
including one that makes it unsafe,
risky, or dangerous to perform the
normal tasks of the job, when the
interactive process is ongoing, when the
parties are waiting for a piece of
equipment, or when the employee is
waiting for the employer’s decision on
the accommodation request.
Interim reasonable accommodations
are not required. However, providing an
interim reasonable accommodation is a
best practice under the PWFA and may
help limit a covered entity’s exposure to
liability under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
and § 1636.4(a)(1) (‘‘An unnecessary
delay in providing a reasonable
accommodation to the known
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
146 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–34728, Cloquet
Area Fire District (Sept. 12, 2023).
147 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98479, The
Center for WorkLife Law, at 2 (Oct. 10, 2023).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29124

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

of a qualified employee may result in a
violation of the PWFA if the delay
constitutes a failure to provide a
reasonable accommodation.’’).
Furthermore, depending on the
circumstances, requiring an employee to
take leave as an interim reasonable
accommodation may violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f). To help illustrate these
principles, the Commission has added
additional examples regarding this issue
to the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(h) under Interim Reasonable
Accommodations.
Finally, in response to several
comments, the Commission declines to
define ‘‘interim reasonable
accommodation’’ differently than
‘‘reasonable accommodation.’’ The term
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ is already
defined under the ADA and the
PWFA.148 The Commission declines to
create a new definition for such a
similar term because it will create
confusion.
1636.3(i) Reasonable Accommodation—
Examples
The Commission received numerous
requests for additional examples and
suggested edits for existing examples in
this section. In response, the
Commission has added a few examples
to explain specific points, using a
variety of employees to illustrate that
the PWFA applies to all types of
occupations and professions. Further,
the Commission has made minor edits
to the language in the examples from the
NPRM to standardize the language and
format used in these examples. For
example, the Commission added
‘‘affected by, or arising out of’’ after
‘‘related to,’’ added ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions,’’ and added that the
adjustment or change at work is ‘‘due
to’’ the limitation.
The Commission did not receive
comments related to § 1636.3(i)(1) from
the NPRM. Comments the Commission
received regarding § 1636.3(i)(2) and (4)
from the NPRM are discussed below.
Comments regarding § 1636.3(i)(3) from
the NPRM (addressing leave as a
reasonable accommodation) are
discussed supra in the preamble in
section 1636.3(h) under Particular
Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation. Comments
received regarding § 1636.3(i)(5) from
the NPRM (regarding the suspension of
an essential function(s) as a reasonable
accommodation) are discussed supra in
the preamble in section 1636.3(f)(2)
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function(s) and infra in the preamble in
148 29 CFR 1630.2(o) (ADA); § 1636.3(h) (PWFA).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

section 1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function(s).
1636.3(i)(2) List of Possible
Accommodations
The Commission received a few
comments recommending that in
addition to listing telework in
§ 1636.3(i)(2), the Commission include
‘‘remote work’’ and the ability to change
work sites and add that telework is a
possible accommodation to avoid
heightened health risks, such as from
communicable diseases. The
Commission has added remote work
and change in worksites to the nonexhaustive list of possible
accommodations in § 1636.3(i)(2) and to
the Interpretive Guidance. The
Commission also deleted the word
‘‘additional’’ before ‘‘unpaid leave’’ in
§ 1636.3(i)(2) because unpaid leave can
be an accommodation whether or not it
is additional.149
In the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(i) Reasonable
Accommodation—Examples, the
Commission added within the possible
accommodation of ‘‘frequent breaks’’ the
situation where the regular location of
the employee’s workplace makes
nursing during work hours a possibility
because the child is within close
proximity. This concept has also been
added to the regulation in
§ 1636.3(i)(4)(iii). It also is described, in
more detail, infra in the preamble in
section 1636.3(i)(4) Examples of
Reasonable Accommodations Related to
Lactation in the Commission’s response
to the comments for § 1636.3(i)(4).
1636.3(i)(4) Examples of Reasonable
Accommodations Related to Lactation
As an initial matter, some comments
suggested the Commission include
additional conditions related to
lactation, such as ‘‘difficulty with
attachment’’ or ‘‘inability to pump
milk,’’ in the illustrative, nonexhaustive list of related medical
conditions in § 1636.3(b). As explained
elsewhere, the Commission has not
added or deleted any terms from its
non-exhaustive list. The fact that these
terms have not been added to the nonexhaustive list in § 1636.3(b) should not
be interpreted to deny coverage for
those conditions.
With regard to § 1636.3(i)(4), many
comments expressed concern over the
wording used in proposed § 1636.3(i)(4)
which, in describing examples of
accommodations related to lactation,
149 These changes are in addition to the change
noted in the preamble in section 1636.3(h) under
Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to Health Due to
the Known Limitation.

PO 00000

Frm 00030

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

referenced the Providing Urgent
Maternal Protections for Nursing
Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–
328, Div. KK, 136 Stat. 4459, 6093).
Specifically, comments cautioned that
the existing language could
inadvertently create the impression that
the PUMP Act does not require certain
measures to ensure an adequate
lactation space. To clarify this matter,
the Commission has incorporated the
suggested edits, both removing the
introductory phrase in § 1636.3(i)(4)(ii)
(‘‘Whether the space for lactation is
provided under the PUMP Act or
paragraph (i)(4)(i) of this section’’) and
adding the phrase ‘‘shielded from view
and free from intrusion,’’ which is
utilized in the PUMP Act, in an effort
to emphasize the PUMP Act’s
requirements and what can be a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA. For the same reason, the
Commission has added the phrase ‘‘a
place other than a bathroom,’’ also from
the PUMP Act, to § 1636.3(i)(4)(ii).
Also related to the PUMP Act, some
comments asserted that leave and breaks
under the PWFA could improperly
exceed those provided under the PUMP
Act. The Commission does not agree.
The PUMP Act provides covered
employees with a reasonable break each
time the employee has a need to express
milk, for up to 1 year after giving
birth.150 There is not a maximum
number of breaks.151 The frequency,
duration, and timing of breaks can
vary; 152 thus, there is no defined
number of breaks under the PUMP Act.
Another comment suggested that the
Commission should not include
accommodations related to lactation
because the PUMP Act provides for
breaks to pump at work and should be
the exclusive mechanism for
accommodations related to lactation.
The Commission declines to make this
change. The PUMP Act applies to
almost all employees covered under the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as
amended (FLSA), 29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.,
with exemptions created for specifically
identified transportation-related jobs,
and allows for employers with 50 or
fewer employees to seek an exemption
based on undue hardship.153 The PWFA
applies to all employers with 15 or more
150 29 U.S.C. 218d; U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Fact Sheet
#73: FLSA Protections for Employees to Pump
Breast Milk at Work (Jan. 2023), https://
www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fact-sheets/73-flsabreak-time-nursing-mothers; U.S. Dep’t of Lab.,
Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2023–02: Enforcement
Protections for Employees to Pump Breast Milk at
Work (May 17, 2023), https://www.dol.gov/sites/
dolgov/files/WHD/fab/2023-2.pdf.
151 See supra note 150.
152 Id.
153 Id.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
employees.154 Congress passed both
laws at the same time and decided
which entities would be covered; the
Commission has a responsibility to
follow the text of the statute it has been
charged with enforcing. Furthermore, an
employer that is covered under the
PWFA but not under the PUMP Act
does not automatically have to provide
a reasonable accommodation related to
pumping; under the PWFA, the covered
entity, regardless of size or industry,
does not have to provide the
accommodation if it causes an undue
hardship in the specific situation.
Additionally, while the PWFA provides
that it does not ‘‘invalidate or limit the
powers, remedies, or procedures under
any Federal law . . . that provides
greater or equal protection for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions,’’ 155 nothing in the PWFA
prohibits it from providing more or
additional protections.
Other comments suggested adding a
new subsection, § 1636.3(i)(4)(iii), to
specify additional examples of
reasonable accommodations related to
lactation such as modifications that
would remove barriers to breastfeeding
or pumping and avoid or alleviate
lactation-related health complications.
The Commission does not find the
proposed additions, which reiterate the
broader goals of the law, necessary in
the list of accommodations. However,
the Commission has added language in
a new paragraph (i)(4)(iv) to § 1636.3 to
clarify that the types of accommodations
listed in this section are not the only
ones available for lactation.
Some comments urged the
Commission to make clear that it could
be a violation of the PWFA to ‘‘prohibit
an employee from pumping milk in a
space where they otherwise have
permission to work or to be present’’
unless it creates an undue hardship, and
that coworker discomfort about being in
the same room while an employee is
pumping is not a valid ground for
failing to provide an accommodation.
The Commission is not making this
addition. While it may be that the
situation described in this comment
could be a reasonable accommodation,
as set out in § 1636.4(a)(4), an employer
has the ultimate discretion in choosing
between effective accommodations. The
Commission agrees that generally
coworker discomfort does not establish
undue hardship and has added that
point in the Interpretive Guidance in

section 1636.3(j)(1) Undue Hardship—
In General.156
Another comment suggested that the
Commission explicitly state that certain
accommodations, such as telework, are
not available for lactation. The
Commission declines to add which
accommodations may cause an undue
hardship in a specific situation, as such
a determination is fact-specific. Under
the PWFA, as under the ADA,
employers should conduct an
individualized assessment in response
to each request for a reasonable
accommodation.
Some comments recommended that
the Commission also include nursing at
work for those circumstances where the
employee works in close proximity to
their child and can easily nurse during
the workday. The Commission agrees
that in situations where the regular
location of the qualified employee’s
workplace makes nursing during work
hours a possibility because the child is
in close proximity, allowing breaks for
nursing would be a possible reasonable
accommodation (e.g., an employee who
regularly works from home and has
their child at home or an employee
whose child is at a nearby or onsite
daycare center). The Commission has
added this to the regulation in
§ 1636.3(i)(4)(iii). The Commission
cautions that this provision is intended
to address situations where the qualified
employee and child are in close
proximity in the normal course of
business. It is not intended to indicate
that there is a right to create proximity
to nurse because of an employee’s
preference. Of course, there may be
known limitations that would entitle a
qualified employee to the creation of
proximity as a reasonable
accommodation, absent undue hardship
(e.g., a limitation that made pumping
difficult or unworkable).
Some comments sought reassurances
that lactation accommodations also may
include not only breaks to pump, but
also refrigeration to store milk. Section
1636.3(i)(4)(ii) specifically references
refrigeration for storing milk.
1636.3(j) Undue Hardship and
1636.3(j)(1) Undue Hardship—In
General
The Commission did not receive
comments regarding § 1636.3(j)(1),
which defines ‘‘undue hardship’’ using
the language from the ADA. The
Commission has not made changes to
the regulation on this point. Because
undue hardship under the PWFA is
defined as in the ADA, the Commission
has added information from the

154 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(A), (B)(1).
155 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(1).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

156 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.15(d).

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00031

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29125

appendix to 29 CFR part 1630
(Interpretive Guidance on Title I of the
Americans With Disabilities Act)
regarding undue hardship generally to
the PWFA Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(j)(1) Undue Hardship—
In General so that information is easily
available to covered entities and
employees.
1636.3(j)(2) Undue Hardship Factors
The Commission did not receive
comments that disagreed with the
Commission’s use of the ADA’s undue
hardship factors in the PWFA and has
maintained the proposed language in
the final regulation.
The Commission received many
comments regarding what facts should
and should not be considered when an
employer is determining undue
hardship.
First, the Commission received many
comments discussing how previously
granted accommodations should affect
the undue hardship analysis. Undue
hardship is a broad concept in terms of
what may go into determining whether
a particular reasonable accommodation
imposes a significant difficulty or
expense. An employer may consider the
current impact of cumulative costs or
burdens of accommodations that have
already been granted to other employees
or the same employee when considering
whether a new request for the same or
similar accommodation imposes an
undue hardship. However, as the
comments emphasized, and the
Commission has stated, ‘‘[g]eneralized
conclusions will not suffice to support
a claim of undue hardship. Instead,
undue hardship must be based on an
individualized assessment of current
circumstances that show that a specific
reasonable accommodation would cause
significant difficulty or expense.’’ 157
Additionally, in some circumstances,
rather than supporting a possible
contention of an undue hardship based
on cumulative burden, the fact that an
employer has provided the same or
similar accommodations in the past can
weigh against an argument that granting
it will impose an undue hardship.
Ultimately, whether a particular
accommodation will impose an undue
hardship for an employer is determined
on a case-by-case basis. This
information has been added to the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(j) under Undue Hardship—
Consideration of Prior or Future
Accommodations.
Second, several comments stated that
an employer should not be able to rely
157 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, text at n.113.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29126

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

solely on the fact that an employee
previously received an accommodation
to assert undue hardship. The
Commission agrees and reiterates that
although an employer may consider the
impact of prior accommodations granted
to the employee currently seeking an
accommodation, the mere fact that an
employee previously received an
accommodation or, indeed, several
accommodations, does not establish that
it would impose an undue hardship on
the employer to grant a new
accommodation. This information has
been added to the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(j) under Undue
Hardship—Consideration of Prior or
Future Accommodations.
The Commission received several
comments regarding whether or how
other employees should play a role in
the undue hardship determination. The
factors considered in the undue
hardship analysis under the PWFA
mirror those under the ADA.
Accordingly, an employer cannot assert
undue hardship based on employees’
fears or prejudices toward the
individual’s pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical condition, nor can an
undue hardship defense be based on the
possibility that granting an
accommodation would negatively
impact the morale of other employees.
Employers, however, may be able to
show undue hardship where the
provision of an accommodation would
be unduly disruptive to other
employees’ ability to work.158 This
information has been added to the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(j)(1) Undue Hardship—In
General.
A few comments requested more
examples of when an employer does
meet the burden of showing undue
hardship. An additional example has
been added in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(j)(2) Undue Hardship
Factors and the examples from the
proposed appendix have been edited to
include additional facts to help better
explain why the situation creates an
undue hardship.

workers or clients and whether there is
a ‘‘direct threat’’ affirmative defense as
in the ADA.159 Congress did not include
a ‘‘direct threat’’ defense in the PWFA.
Thus, as explained in the NPRM, the
undue hardship analysis is the
controlling framework for evaluating
accommodation requests by employees
with limitations related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions, including
with regard to considerations of
safety.160 Additionally, as stated in the
NPRM, Title VII’s bona fide
occupational qualification (BFOQ)
standard, rather than the PWFA’s undue
hardship standard, applies to assertions
by employers that employees create a
safety risk merely by being pregnant.161
The Commission has included this
information in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(j) under
Undue Hardship and Safety.

Undue Hardship and Safety
A few comments asked for
clarification on which standard applies
when an employee requests an
accommodation that the covered entity
asserts would cause a safety risk to co-

1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function(s)
The Commission received numerous
comments describing the potential
difficulties that employers may face in
providing accommodations to
employees who temporarily cannot
perform one or more essential functions,
pointing to specialized functions in
certain industries and the burden of
training employees. The Commission
understands that in certain situations,
providing the accommodation of the
temporary suspension of an essential
function(s) may cause an undue
hardship. The difficulties addressed in
the comments can be raised under the
undue hardship defense and are all part
of the individualized assessment under
the PWFA. The Commission notes that
employees seeking accommodations
under the PWFA are not unlike other
employees who are temporarily unable
to perform one or more essential
functions for various reasons and have
received job modifications without a
significant difficulty imposed on
business operations under similar
circumstances.
The Commission received a comment
suggesting the deletion of
§ 1636.3(j)(3)(iv) (‘‘Whether the covered
entity has provided other employees in
similar positions who are unable to
perform the essential function(s) of their
position with temporary suspensions of

158 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.15(d);
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at text after n.117;
cf. Groff v. DeJoy, 600 U.S. 447, 472–73 (2023)
(opining that, under the Title VII undue hardship
standard, the employer may not justify refusal to
accommodate based on other employees’ bias or
hostility).

159 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(3) (defining ‘‘direct
threat’’), 12113(b) (providing that the qualification
standard can include a condition that a person not
pose a direct threat); 29 CFR 1630.2(r)(1) through
(4) (outlining factors to be considered in whether
an employee poses a direct threat).
160 88 FR 54733.
161 Id.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00032

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

essential functions’’) because, the
comment asserted, it inappropriately
imports a ‘‘comparative’’ approach into
the PWFA, which was enacted in part
to address similar challenges
experienced under Title VII. In the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function(s), the Commission clarifies
that under § 1636.3(j)(3)(iv) an employer
not having provided an accommodation
previously does not tend to demonstrate
that doing so now, for the qualified
employee with a known limitation,
would cause an undue hardship because
making a change to a workplace
procedure or rule can itself be a
reasonable accommodation. Instead, if
this factor is relevant, it will tend to
demonstrate the lack of an undue
hardship. For example, if an employer
has consistently provided light duty
assignments to those who are
temporarily unable to perform a certain
essential function(s) for reasons other
than pregnancy, it will be difficult for
the employer to prove that it is an
undue hardship to provide a light duty
assignment to a qualified pregnant
employee who is similarly unable to
perform such an essential function(s).
Finally, the Commission also has
added to the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function(s) that for the undue hardship
factor laid out in § 1636.3(j)(3)(ii)
(whether there is work for the employee
to accomplish), the employer is not
required to invent work for an
employee.
1636.3(j)(4) Undue Hardship—
Predictable Assessments
In response to the Commission’s
directed question regarding the
adoption of the predictable assessment
approach and whether the list of
accommodations should be modified, a
large number of comments agreed with
the method, and many suggested
expanding the list. Several comments
specifically requested the addition of:
modifications to uniforms or dress
codes; minor physical modifications to
a workstation (e.g., a fan or a chair);
permitting the use of a workstation
closer to a bathroom or lactation space,
or farther away from environmental
hazards (e.g., heat, fumes, or toxins); use
of a closer parking space in an
employer-provided parking facility;
permitting eating or drinking at a
workstation or nearby location where
food or drink is not usually permitted;
rest breaks as needed; and providing
personal protective equipment (e.g.,
gloves, goggles, earplugs, hardhats, or

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

masks). The Commission acknowledges
that several of the recommended
additions also are common and simple,
and employers should be able to
provide these, and, in fact, many
accommodations under the PWFA, with
little difficulty. However, the
Commission declines to make these
additions to the list of predictable
assessments, because they are not the
accommodations frequently mentioned
in the legislative history, some may not
be easily applied across a broad category
of jobs or workplaces, others also are
provided under other laws and
employee protections,162 and certain
modifications are not so commonly
needed. This is not to say that such
accommodations should not be granted
when requested, but simply that the
Commission will not categorize them as
the type of change that in ‘‘virtually all
cases’’ is a reasonable accommodation
that does not create an undue hardship.
In seeking the inclusion of these
accommodations as predictable
assessments, some comments asserted
that other States and localities do not
allow employers to assert undue
hardship for some of these specific
modifications. The Commission
acknowledges the similarities between
the PWFA and certain State laws,
having referenced them in support of
the predictable assessment approach.163
However, given the differences in State
laws on this issue, with some having a
version of predictable assessments and
others having none, the Commission
declines to expand the list of
predictable assessments.
Some comments recommended that
predictable assessments include,
specifically, 16 health care
appointments. The comments reasoned
that this number represents the typical
recommended number of prenatal and
postnatal care visits for an
uncomplicated pregnancy. The
Commission is not adding this to the list
of predictable assessments because the
Commission acknowledges that the
timing of an appointment and the length
of an appointment may differ for each
employee. The Commission also is
concerned that setting a number of
appointments could erroneously imply
that additional appointments would
necessarily create an undue hardship.
However, the Commission emphasizes
162 See, e.g., 29 CFR 1910.132(a); U.S. Dep’t of
Lab., OSHA Personal Protective Equipment, https://
www.osha.gov/personal-protective-equipment/
standards (last visited Mar. 18, 2024); U.S. Dep’t of
Lab., OSHA Factsheet—Personal Protective
Equipment, https://www.osha.gov/sites/default/
files/publications/ppe-factsheet.pdf (last visited
Mar. 18, 2024).
163 88 FR 54785–86.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

that employers should expect such
requests, that such requests are covered
by the PWFA, and that granting such
requests should be a straightforward
process, absent undue hardship.
Another comment suggested that 8
weeks of leave to recover from
childbirth be added as a predictable
assessment, noting that despite the
regularity of such a request, it is
routinely rejected by employers. The
Commission recognizes it is predictable
that pregnant employees will need leave
to recover from childbirth. However,
given the differences in workplaces and
the possibility that the employee has
access to leave through the FMLA, State
law, or an employer’s program, the
Commission is not making this change.
Citing the number of pregnancies
affected by gestational diabetes, one
comment recommended the addition of
short breaks to monitor blood glucose
levels. As with breaks to hydrate, eat, or
use the restroom, the Commission
recognizes that these types of breaks
should be simple for employers to
provide. However, because this is a less
universal need and was not repeatedly
mentioned in the legislative history of
the PWFA, the Commission does not
believe it is appropriate to include it in
the list of predictable assessments.
The Commission also received
numerous comments claiming that the
identification of predictable assessments
violates the statutory text of the PWFA
and is beyond the Commission’s
authority because, according to these
comments, ‘‘predictable assessments’’
create a category of ‘‘per se’’ reasonable
accommodations. Comments also stated
that predictable assessments undercut
the individualized assessment
principles of the ADA, that there are
differences among various jobs and
workplaces, and that Congress intended
for individualized assessments to be
used. The Commission disagrees with
these comments as they are misreading
the NPRM. As stated in the NPRM, ‘‘the
adoption of predictable assessments
. . . does not change the requirement
that, as under the regulation
implementing the ADA, employers must
conduct an individualized assessment’’
and ‘‘[t]he identification of certain
modifications as ‘predictable
assessments’ does not alter the
definition of undue hardship or deprive
a covered entity of the opportunity to
bring forward facts to demonstrate a
proposed accommodation imposes an
undue hardship for its business under
its own particular circumstances.’’ 164
In a similar vein, the Commission
received comments stating that certain
164 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00033

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29127

industries would have a more difficult
time providing the accommodations that
the Commission has identified as
predictable assessments. As the
Commission has stated, in those
industries (as in any others), an
employer may assert that the requested
accommodation causes an undue
hardship.
Some comments suggested the
Commission include additional
language in § 1636.3(j)(4)(i) to
encompass circumstances where it may
not be reasonable for the employee to
‘‘carry’’ water. The Commission agrees
and has added ‘‘keep water near’’ to
§ 1636.3(j)(4)(i). In explaining the
predictable assessments in the
Interpretive Guidance, the Commission
also has clarified that, depending on the
worksite, the employee may be able to
eat or drink at their workstation without
taking a break.
In the regulation, the Commission has
removed the following language from
the proposed rule (§ 1636.3(j)(4)):
‘‘Although a covered entity must assess
on a case-by-case basis whether a
requested modification is a reasonable
accommodation that would cause an
undue hardship . . .’’; ‘‘[g]iven the
simple and straightforward nature of
these modifications, they will, as a
factual matter, virtually always be found
to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose significant difficulty or
expense (i.e., undue hardship)’’; and
‘‘[i]t should easily be concluded that the
following modifications will virtually
always be reasonable accommodations
that do not impose an undue hardship.’’
While all of these sentences remain true,
including this information in the
regulation is repetitive and unnecessary.
These concepts have been moved to the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(j)(4) Undue Hardship—
Predictable Assessments.
Finally, the Commission made a few
minor changes to the language in
§ 1636.3(j)(4).165
Formerly Proposed 1636.3(j)(5) Undue
Hardship—Future Accommodations
Several comments recommended that
the Commission clarify that the
potential for future accommodation
requests from other employees cannot
serve as a basis for failing to provide an
accommodation. The Commission
agrees and has added language in the
Interpretive Guidance to the effect that
an employer may not fail to provide an
accommodation based on the
165 For example, for consistency the Commission
added ‘‘as needed’’ to § 1636.3(j)(4)(ii) and (iii);
removed ‘‘through the workday’’ from
§ 1636.3(j)(4)(i); and added ‘‘to take’’ in
§ 1636.3(j)(4)(ii) and (iv).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29128

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

possibility—whether speculative or
nearly certain—that it will have to
provide the accommodation to other
employees in the future. Because this
point is relevant to how a covered entity
should consider other accommodations,
it has been added in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(j) under
Undue Hardship—Consideration of
Prior or Future Accommodations, which
also includes more information about
the consideration of prior and future
accommodations. Accordingly,
§ 1636.3(j)(5) of the NPRM has been
removed from the regulation.
1636.3(k) Interactive Process

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

The NPRM largely adopted the
explanation of the interactive process in
the regulation implementing the ADA.
The Commission has made one
change in the regulatory language of
§ 1636.3(k). The final rule states that the
adjustment or change at work must be
‘‘due to the limitation.’’ This is intended
to clarify that there is a connection
between the limitation and the
requested adjustment or change at work.
Numerous comments suggested that
the Commission highlight that in many
instances the interactive process may
occur in a very abbreviated form, given
that most accommodations employees
are likely to seek under the PWFA are
simple and easy to provide and have
little to no cost to covered entities, and
because the temporary nature of
pregnancy, childbirth, and related
medical conditions makes expediency
in responding to and providing
requested accommodations crucial.
The Commission, in enforcing the
ADA, has acknowledged that in many
instances both the need for an
accommodation and the accommodation
required will be obvious, leaving ‘‘little
or no need to engage in any
discussion.’’ 166 In advising Federal
agencies on creating their disability
reasonable accommodation procedures,
the Commission recommends that they
process requests ‘‘in a manner that
imposes the fewest burdens on the
individuals . . . and permits the most
expeditious consideration and delivery
of the reasonable accommodation.’’ 167
The same is true for the PWFA. Where
an employee has requested a simple and
easy accommodation under the PWFA,
such as using a portable fan in the
166 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at Question 5.
167 EEOC, Policy Guidance on Executive Order
13164: Establishing Procedures to Facilitate the
Provision of Reasonable Accommodation, Question
7 (2000), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
policy-guidance-executive-order-13164establishing-procedures-facilitate-provision.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

office, engaging in a lengthy back-andforth would be unwarranted.
Some comments recommended that
the Commission modify its guidance for
the interactive process. The
modifications, these comments
explained, will better ensure that
covered entities recognize the
differences in the interactive process
under the PWFA and the ADA.
According to these comments, during
the short time the PWFA has been in
effect, covered entities have used their
ADA policies to process pregnancyrelated accommodation requests. Some
employers have purportedly required
their employees to fill out lengthy forms
and medical certifications, which seek
unnecessary information, leading to
lengthy delays and denials.168
The Commission agrees with the
suggestions to emphasize that most
requests for accommodations under the
PWFA can be provided quickly and
typically will consist of nothing more
than brief conversations or email
exchanges and has added language to
this effect in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(k) Interactive Process.
However, the Commission disagrees that
this is meaningfully different than the
ADA; under both statutes, the
interactive process should focus on
finding an appropriate reasonable
accommodation.
In order to further highlight the
flexible, individualized nature of the
interactive process, in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(k)
Interactive Process the Commission has
added information about how the
process does not have to follow specific
steps and has changed the title of the
possible steps in the interactive process
in the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(k) to Recommendations for an
Interactive Process, while maintaining
the substance from the ADA guidance.
The Commission also has added that
information provided by the employee
in the interactive process does not need
to be in any specific format, include
specific words, or be on a specific form.
The Commission received a few
comments regarding the omission of the
word ‘‘precise’’ from the description of
the interactive process in the proposed
appendix. As set out in § 1636.3(a)(2),
limitations may be modest, minor, and/
or episodic. A limitation also may be a
need or a problem related to
maintaining the health of the employee
or the health of the pregnancy. A
process that tries to determine the
‘‘precise’’ limitation is in tension with
168 See Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98479, The
Center for WorkLife Law, at 23 (Oct. 10, 2023).

PO 00000

Frm 00034

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

the idea that limitations can be minor
impediments.
Another comment questioned
whether the absence of the word
‘‘precise’’ limited whether the covered
entity could, for example, require
information about how many breaks an
employee needs and for how long. It
does not. The Commission’s view is that
under such circumstances, the employer
could ask such follow-up questions in
order to craft an effective
accommodation that is not an undue
hardship.
One comment suggested that the
Commission clarify that to initiate the
interactive process the employee does
not need to identify what the specific
limitation is, but only that they have
such a limitation and need an
adjustment or change at work. Section
1636.3(h)(2) describes how an employee
begins the reasonable accommodation
process.
To ensure that employees and covered
entities understand that any medical
information obtained during the
interactive process under the PWFA is
subject to the ADA’s confidentiality
rules and restrictions on disabilityrelated inquiries, the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(k)
Interactive Process includes a brief
overview of these topics, with further
information provided in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.7(a)(1) under
Prohibition on Disability-Related
Inquiries and Medical Examinations
and Protection of Medical Information.
Of particular relevance to the PWFA,
that an employee is pregnant, has
recently been pregnant, or has a medical
condition related to pregnancy or
childbirth is medical information.169
The ADA requires that employers keep
such information confidential and only
disclose it within the confines of the
ADA’s limited disclosure rules.170
169 88 FR 54744.
170 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR
1630.14(b)(1), (c)(1), (d)(4); EEOC, Enforcement
Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries and
Medical Exams of Employees Under the ADA, at
text accompanying nn.9–10 (2000) [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related
Inquiries], http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
enforcement-guidance-disability-related-inquiriesand-medical-examinations-employees (‘‘The ADA
requires employers to treat any medical information
obtained from a disability-related inquiry or
medical examination . . . as well as any medical
information voluntarily disclosed by an employee,
as a confidential medical record. Employers may
share such information only in limited
circumstances with supervisors, managers, first aid
and safety personnel, and government officials
investigating compliance with the ADA.’’); EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment DisabilityRelated Questions and Medical Examinations, at
text accompanying n.6 (1995) [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment DisabilityRelated Questions], https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Similarly, disclosing that an employee
is receiving or has requested a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA usually amounts to a disclosure
that the employee is pregnant, has
recently been pregnant, or has a related
medical condition.171
Many comments described the
difficulty pregnant employees may
experience obtaining appointments with
health care providers, especially early in
pregnancy. To help address this
concern, the Commission has added
language to the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(k) under Engaging in the
Interactive Process 172 to the effect that
when a covered entity is permitted to
seek supporting documentation from a
health care provider under the
parameters outlined in § 1636.3(l), the
covered entity should be aware that it
may take time for the employee to find
a health care provider and provide the
documentation. Delay caused by the
difficulty faced by an employee in
obtaining information from a health care
provider in these circumstances should
not be considered a withdrawal from or
refusal to participate in the interactive
process. If there is such a delay, an
employer should consider providing an
interim reasonable accommodation.
Several comments requested that the
Commission specifically address the
need for reasonable accommodations in
unforeseen, urgent, emergency
situations when the employee has not
already requested a reasonable
accommodation. One comment
described instances where employees
experienced bleeding or passed out due
to their pregnancies and had to
immediately leave their worksites to
obtain emergency care, only to return to
work and find they were charged with
violating the covered entities’
attendance policy. In response, the
Commission has added information and
an example in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(k) under Engaging in
the Interactive Process. This example
involves a situation where the
employee, who has not asked for an
accommodation or informed their
employer that they are pregnant,
experiences an emergency that is a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The example explains that
by informing the employer that they are
experiencing an emergency related to
guidance/enforcement-guidance-preemploymentdisability-related-questions-and-medical (‘‘Medical
information must be kept confidential.’’).
171 88 FR 54744.
172 In the proposed appendix, this heading was
entitled ‘‘Failure to Engage in Interactive Process.’’
88 FR 54787.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions and need leave
immediately, the employee has made a
request for a reasonable
accommodation. The example goes on
to explain that, if it is later determined
that the employee is entitled to a
reasonable accommodation, the
employer should not penalize the
employee because the emergency
required a pause in the interactive
process.
In the Interpretive Guidance, the
information regarding delay and
emergencies explained in the preceding
paragraphs has been added to section
1636.3(k) under the heading formerly
titled Failure to Engage in the
Interactive Process. To reflect these
additions, the title of that heading has
been changed to Engaging in the
Interactive Process.
One comment asked that the
Commission clarify whether the
‘‘interactive process’’ requirements can
be met by using software. There are no
required steps or methodology for the
interactive process; thus, the
Commission has not taken a position on
whether such a system will meet the
requirements of the interactive process.
The Commission does remind covered
entities that they are responsible for
their part of the interactive process,
regardless of how they meet that
obligation.
A comment requested that the
Commission oversee the interactive
process between covered entities and
employees, suggesting a system of
monitoring and evaluation. While the
Commission issues guidance, provides
technical assistance, and engages in
litigation, the Commission is unable to
offer the level of monitoring proposed.
Generally, the employee and employer
are in the best position to understand
the limitations, affected job functions,
and possible accommodations involved
in the interactive process.
Finally, the Commission has included
additional examples in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(k)
Interactive Process to illustrate how
accommodations may be granted
through the interactive process.
1636.3(l) Limits on Supporting
Documentation
The Commission received numerous
comments about the NPRM’s approach
to supporting documentation and the
extent to which the final regulation
should permit covered entities to seek
such documentation in support of an
employee’s request for a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA. The
proposed rule provided that a covered
entity could require supporting

PO 00000

Frm 00035

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29129

documentation that is reasonable under
the circumstances for the covered entity
to determine whether to grant the
accommodation. Further, the rule
provided that when it was reasonable
under the circumstances, the employer
could only require reasonable
documentation.
1636.3(l)(1) Seeking Supporting
Documentation Only When Reasonable
Under the Circumstances
Comments and Response to Comments
That Were Generally Supportive or
Generally Unsupportive of the
Commission’s Approach
The Commission received many
comments that were generally
supportive of the approach to
documentation set forth in the proposed
rule, although most had suggestions for
further limiting the ability of employers
to seek supporting documentation.
Many comments agreed with the
Commission that employees who are
pregnant may experience limitations
and, therefore, require accommodations
before they have had any medical
appointments, and that it may be
difficult for a pregnant employee to
obtain an immediate appointment with
a health care provider early in a
pregnancy, especially for those living in
certain regions of the country where
there are limited resources for maternal
health. These and other comments also
provided numerous additional reasons
for limiting the amount of
documentation that covered entities
may seek under the PWFA, including:
the burden and corresponding reduction
in quality of care that administrative
duties (such as paperwork) place on
health care professionals; the possibility
that the notes doctors provide are
‘‘overprotective’’ and result in a person
who wants to work being placed on
leave; the costs in time and money
employees face when they must obtain
medical documentation; 173 the concern
that a doctor may feel uncomfortable
certifying that a condition is completely
due to pregnancy; 174 the fact that these
173 Some comments that were generally
sympathetic to the idea that it is difficult for
pregnant employees to obtain supporting
documentation in some circumstances argued that
rather than limiting employers’ ability to seek
supporting documentation in those circumstances,
employers could provide interim accommodations
while waiting for supporting documentation. The
Commission agrees providing interim reasonable
accommodations is a possibility and has expanded
the section regarding interim reasonable
accommodations in the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(h) under Interim Reasonable
Accommodations, although providing an interim
reasonable accommodation is not required.
174 This concern is misplaced, as the PWFA
requires accommodation for physical or mental

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29130

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

burdens may deter employees who need
accommodations from asking for them;
and the possibility that employers will
not maintain the confidentiality of
medical documentation they obtain,
among other reasons. These comments
agreed with the overall structure of the
proposed rule’s documentation
provision but also offered suggestions
for further limiting the circumstances in
which documentation could be sought,
as explained in more detail below. Some
comments, generally supportive of the
proposed rule’s approach, urged the
Commission to ensure that there is a
broad understanding among covered
entities and employees of the PWFA’s
rules limiting the ability of covered
entities to seek supporting
documentation.
Other comments, however, were
generally unsupportive of the proposed
rule’s approach, arguing that before
deciding whether to grant requests for
reasonable accommodations, employers
need to be able to seek supporting
documentation beyond what the
proposed rule would allow. Such
comments expressed concern about
employee fraud, including employees
who might seek accommodations with
no relation to a PWFA-covered
limitation.175 Others said that the
proposed rule did not allow employers
to request sufficient justification for a
requested accommodation and that this
aspect of the proposal violated the spirit
of mutually beneficial cooperation that
the PWFA represents. Concerns about
vague requests, employees who did not
know what sort of accommodation they
needed, and the absence of a concrete
rule also were mentioned in these
comments.
In drafting the final rule on
supporting documentation, the
Commission took these comments into
consideration, as well as the more
specific suggestions discussed below.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Suggesting That the PWFA’s Rule on
Supporting Documentation Should
Follow the ADA
Some comments that generally were
unsupportive of the proposed rule’s
conditions ‘‘related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ and not that the physical or mental
condition solely be due to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); see
also section 1636.3(a)(2) under Related to, Affected
by, or Arising Out of in the Interpretive Guidance.
175 Another comment noted, however, that the
fact that covered entities are permitted to request
supporting documentation ‘‘when necessary’’ to
determine if a limitation is ‘‘related to, affected by,
or arising out of’’ pregnancy overcame any concerns
that the employer will have to provide an
accommodation for a condition not related to a
PWFA limitation.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

approach to supporting documentation
argued that the PWFA regulation should
follow the approach employers use
under the ADA. Some argued that this
approach should be followed because it
provides a familiar bright line that is
more useful to employers than a general
‘‘reasonableness’’ standard. These
comments also asserted that difficulties
pregnant employees have obtaining
documentation are faced equally by
those with disabilities and, therefore,
should not be a factor in the drafting of
a final rule.
The Commission disagrees with the
comments that argued that it
automatically can or should apply the
ADA’s approach to supporting
documentation under the PWFA in all
circumstances. The ADA’s statutory
restrictions on disability-related
inquiries apply to all disability-related
inquiries, whether or not an employee
has a disability,176 including when such
inquiries are made in response to a
request for an accommodation under the
PWFA, as discussed in detail in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) under Prohibition on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information. These restrictions limit an
employer’s ability to ask employees
questions that are likely to elicit
information about a disability to
situations when doing so is job-related
and consistent with business
necessity.177
The PWFA does not have a similar
statutory provision regarding
pregnancy-related inquiries.178
However, the PWFA does make it
unlawful for a covered entity not to
make reasonable accommodation to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of a qualified
employee, unless such covered entity
can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship.179 Adopting a
176 42 U.S.C. 12112(d). See also Enforcement
Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 170 (‘‘The ADA’s restrictions on inquiries and
examinations apply to all employees, not just those
with disabilities.’’).
177 42 U.S.C. 12112(d).
178 However, in the context of Title VII, the
Commission has stated, ‘‘Because Title VII prohibits
discrimination based on pregnancy, employers
should not make inquiries into whether an
applicant or employee intends to become pregnant.
The EEOC will generally regard such an inquiry as
evidence of pregnancy discrimination where the
employer subsequently makes an unfavorable job
decision affecting a pregnant worker.’’ Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note
31, at (I)(A)(3)(b). And, as stated, supra, the ADA’s
restrictions on disability-related inquiries apply to
individuals seeking accommodations under the
PWFA.
179 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1).

PO 00000

Frm 00036

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

reasonableness standard for when
employers can seek supporting
documentation to determine coverage
and the need for an accommodation
ensures that covered entities can meet
the statute’s requirements without
overly broad documentation requests
that could result in the failure to
provide accommodations that should be
granted or could lead to claims of
retaliation. Additionally, the
Commission concludes that it is critical
to limit inquiries and the supporting
documentation that a covered entity can
seek when an employee requests an
accommodation under the PWFA so that
covered entities do not obtain sensitive
information that they do not need when
making employment decisions and
employees are not dissuaded from
asking for accommodations out of
concern that such requests will lead to
probing questions unrelated to their
ability to do the job. Thus, the
Commission has retained the
reasonableness standard from the
proposed rule.
The Commission notes that the rule it
is adopting about seeking supporting
documentation for the PWFA is similar
to the Commission’s guidance regarding
the ADA in some ways. The most
important similarity is that a covered
entity is not required to seek supporting
documentation from an employee who
requests an accommodation under the
PWFA, as is true under the ADA. For
example, if an employee, early in their
pregnancy, informs the employer that
they are pregnant, have morning
sickness, and need a later start time, the
employer and the employee can discuss
what type of schedule changes are
needed and implement them. Because of
the difficulty employees may face in
finding care, the fact that many health
care providers will not see employees
until later in their pregnancies,180 and
the fact that many accommodations
under the PWFA will be simple and
temporary, the Commission encourages
employers to engage in this simple type
of interactive process to determine
appropriate accommodations under the
PWFA.
The final PWFA rule contains five
examples of when it is not reasonable
under the circumstances to seek
supporting documentation. Two of these
examples build on the Commission’s
ADA policy guidance (§ 1636.3(l)(1)(i)
(obvious) and (ii) (known)); and a third
example is based on disparate treatment
principles that apply equally under the
ADA (§ 1636.3(l)(1)(v)) (it would not be
reasonable under the circumstances to
seek documentation when the requested
180 88 FR 54736, 54787.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
accommodation is available to
employees without PWFA limitations
pursuant to a covered entity’s policies
or practices without submitting
supporting documentation.). The two
other examples involve pregnancy and
predictable assessments, and lactation,
nursing, and pumping. They are
described in detail below.
Reorganization of § 1636.3(l) and
Changes in the Language Describing the
Reasonableness Standard
The Commission has made several
changes in the regulation for § 1636.3(l).
First, the Commission has changed
the language in § 1636.3(l)(1) regarding
when it is reasonable under the
circumstances from ‘‘reasonable under
the circumstances for the covered entity
to determine whether to grant the
accommodation’’ to ‘‘reasonable under
the circumstances for the covered entity
to determine whether the employee has
a physical or mental condition related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions (a limitation) and
needs an adjustment or change at work
due to the limitation.’’ The Commission
believes that, given the context, ‘‘to
determine whether to grant the
accommodation’’ would be understood
to mean ‘‘to determine whether the
employee has a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (a limitation)
and needs an adjustment or change at
work due to the limitation.’’ However,
the Commission also recognizes that
there may be other factors involved in
an effort ‘‘to determine whether to grant
the accommodation’’ that do not involve
supporting documentation. Thus, the
Commission has changed the language
to be more precise.
Second, throughout the regulation
and the Interpretive Guidance,
references to an employer ‘‘requiring’’
documentation in the proposed rule
have been changed to an employer
‘‘seeking’’ documentation. This change
was made to account for situations
where an employer’s request for
supporting documentation is effectively
a requirement even if it does not contain
the word ‘‘requirement.’’
Third, the Commission has moved the
information regarding confidentiality
from § 1636.3(l)(4) of the proposed
regulation to section 1636.7(a)(1) under
Prohibition on Disability-Related
Inquiries and Medical Examinations
and Protection of Medical Information
in the Interpretive Guidance. The
Commission has made this change
because the prohibition on disabilityrelated inquiries and the confidentiality
provisions that apply to medical

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

information obtained under the PWFA
arise from the ADA, not the PWFA, and
therefore are enforceable under the
ADA, not the PWFA. Accordingly, they
are more appropriately addressed in the
Interpretive Guidance’s discussion of
the application of the ADA’s rules and
exceptions regarding the confidentiality
of medical information than in the
PWFA regulation itself.
Fourth, the Commission has moved
information regarding how
documentation requests that violate
§ 1636.3(l) also may be a violation of 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)
(prohibition on retaliation and
coercion)) to the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.5(f) under Possible
Violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(1636.5(f)) Based on Seeking Supporting
Documentation During the Reasonable
Accommodation Process and Disclosure
of Medical Information.
Fifth, the final rule contains a new
paragraph (new paragraph (l)(4) of
§ 1636.3) regarding self-confirmation for
the purposes of § 1636.3(l)(1)(i), (iii),
and (iv). The NPRM stated that, in
certain circumstances, an employer
could not request documentation to
confirm pregnancy when an employee
‘‘states or confirms’’ that they are
pregnant.181 Some comments discussed
the question of what kind of
confirmation should be allowed and, in
particular, when covered entities should
be permitted to seek documentation to
confirm that an employee is pregnant.
Some argued that self-attestation should
always suffice, others argued that
covered entities should be allowed to
seek supporting documentation
confirming pregnancy unless the
pregnancy is ‘‘obvious,’’ while still
others discussed the types of tests that
should or should not be allowed to
confirm pregnancy. As explained in
detail below, the final rule provides two
circumstances in which covered entities
must accept self-confirmation of
pregnancy: when the pregnancy is
obvious, or when the request for a
change at work involves one of the
modifications listed under § 1636.3(j)(4)
due to pregnancy. As explained in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation,
when the covered entity is permitted to
seek confirmation of pregnancy other
than through self-confirmation, it may
not require a specific test or method.
Additionally, the Commission has
included new subsections in the
Interpretive Guidance: in section
181 88 FR 54737, 54788 (‘‘For example, when an
obviously pregnant worker states or confirms they
are pregnant and asks for a different size uniform
. . . the employer may not require supporting
documentation.’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00037

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29131

1636.3(l) under Interaction Between the
PWFA and the ADA; and in section
1636.7(a)(1) under The PWFA and the
ADA.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Examples of When It Is Not
Reasonable To Seek Supporting
Documentation
As noted above, the NPRM explained
that if an employer decided to seek
supporting documentation, it was only
permitted to do so if it was reasonable
under the circumstances in order for the
employer to determine whether to grant
the accommodation. The NPRM
provided four examples of when it is
not reasonable under the circumstances.
The Commission received comments
seeking additional factual scenarios
illustrating circumstances when it
would, as well as when it would not, be
reasonable under the circumstances to
seek documentation. Some of these
comments provided suggestions for
desired examples. The Commission
agrees that further illustrations would
be useful and therefore has added
further illustrations to the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(l)(1) Seeking
Supporting Documentation Only When
Reasonable Under the Circumstances.
Other comments suggested that the
final rule should state that covered
entities that seek documentation must
provide paid leave for the employee to
obtain the documentation, as well as
cover any costs incurred to obtain it. To
the extent that these comments intended
to suggest that it would not be
reasonable under the circumstances to
seek documentation unless the covered
entity provides paid leave for the
employee to obtain the documentation
and covers any costs incurred, the
Commission disagrees and declines to
adopt this suggestion.
Not Reasonable To Seek Supporting
Documentation—Obvious
The first example in the proposed rule
of when it would not be reasonable
under the circumstances to seek
supporting documentation is when: (1)
the known limitation and need for
reasonable accommodation are obvious;
and (2) the employee confirms the
obvious limitation and need for
reasonable accommodation through selfattestation. This example is retained in
the final rule, although the language has
been modified to reflect changes in the
description of what documentation may
be sought.
Thus, the language in the final rule
regarding this example has been
changed from ‘‘when the known
limitation and the need for reasonable
accommodation are obvious and the

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29132

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

employee confirms the obvious
limitation and need for reasonable
accommodation through selfattestation’’ to ‘‘[w]hen the physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions (a
limitation) and the adjustment or
change at work needed due to the
limitation are obvious, and the
employee provides self-confirmation as
defined in paragraph (l)(4) of this
section.’’ The Interpretive Guidance for
this section, in section 1636.3(l)(1)(i)—
Obvious, has generally remained the
same with some minor language edits.
Many comments expressed concerns
with the meaning of the word
‘‘obvious.’’ Comments noted, among
other things, that a rule that envisions
employers making decisions based on
whether someone is ‘‘obviously’’
pregnant will lead employers to subject
employees’ bodies to invasive scrutiny.
This, in turn, might lead employers to
unilaterally impose restrictions based
on gendered and racialized stereotypes
about what pregnant and postpartum
people need. Other comments argued
that it is irrelevant whether a pregnancy
is ‘‘obvious’’ because if the individual in
question is seeking an accommodation
for which the employer is permitted to
seek documentation, that
documentation will automatically
include a confirmation that the person
is pregnant. Another comment pointed
out that it will be very difficult for
covered entities to determine if a
pregnancy is ‘‘obvious,’’ and that
attempting to do so might expose
employers to liability if a manager
judges incorrectly.
In response to these comments, the
Commission first notes that the idea of
prohibiting requests for supporting
documentation when the condition is
‘‘obvious’’ is similar to the
Commission’s guidance regarding the
ADA although, unlike the ADA, the
PWFA regulation includes a selfconfirmation requirement. The
Commission also has used the concept
of ‘‘obvious’’ previously regarding
pregnancy discrimination.182 An
‘‘obvious’’ pregnancy is one where the
pregnancy is showing, and onlookers
easily notice by observation.
Importantly, as several comments noted,
not everyone who is pregnant looks the
same.
Moreover, the Commission concludes
that concerns about this provision
encouraging employers to force
182 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A)(1)(a)
(discussing the ‘‘obviousness’’ of pregnancy and
how that can play into a discrimination claim).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

employees to accept unnecessary
accommodations based on stereotypes
are misplaced. Whether a pregnancy is
obvious will only be relevant after an
employee requests a reasonable
accommodation. Other parts of the
PWFA prohibit employers from
requiring employees to accept
reasonable accommodations.183
The requirement that obviously
pregnant employees must self-confirm
that they are pregnant (new
§ 1636.3(l)(4)) is intended to address the
concerns expressed by comments about
managers being uncertain whether
someone is pregnant. Although there
may be circumstances in which a
pregnant employee asks for an
accommodation and considers
themselves to be ‘‘obviously’’ pregnant,
but the employer disagrees and requests
supporting documentation, the
Commission believes such cases will be
rare. Finally, although the Commission
understands concerns about an
employer’s possible scrutiny of an
employee’s body, it is impractical to
suggest that an employer in such
circumstances should not consider the
obvious physical condition of the
employee requesting accommodation
and instead seek documentation.
Some comments also requested more
details about and examples of what
would be considered an ‘‘obvious’’
limitation and/or an ‘‘obvious’’ need for
accommodation (for example, asking
when a limitation would be obvious
based on something other than physical
appearance). These comments
suggested, for instance, that if someone
self-attested to pregnancy and then was
seen frequently vomiting, the limitation
(vomiting due to pregnancy) should be
considered obvious, and no
documentation would be needed
because vomiting is a common symptom
of pregnancy.
Under these circumstances, the
comments suggested, the need for an
accommodation of a temporary
relocation of a workstation closer to the
bathroom also would be obvious. These
comments recommended that the
Commission, in the final rule, identify
the following conditions as ‘‘obvious’’:
morning sickness, edema, fatigue, back
pain, medical visits, lifting restrictions,
and time to recover from childbirth,
among others. Comments additionally
recommended that the final rule make
clear that the need for accommodation
is obvious when a pregnant employee
requests removal from exposure to
certain harmful chemicals or infectious
diseases.
183 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2); 29 CFR 1636.4(b).

PO 00000

Frm 00038

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Under the final rule, the first example
of when it is not reasonable under the
circumstances for an employer to seek
supporting documentation is when the
employee’s limitation (physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions) and the
adjustment or change at work that is
needed due to the limitation are obvious
and the employee confirms the
limitation and the adjustment or change
at work needed due to the limitation. As
stated in the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(l)(1)(i)—Obvious, the
Commission expects this example will
usually apply when the employee is
obviously pregnant. ‘‘Obvious’’ means
that the condition is apparent without
being mentioned. In terms of pregnancy
itself, this may depend on physical
appearance, i.e., whether the pregnancy
is ‘‘showing.’’
In response to comments suggesting
that additional circumstances will
always fall within the parameters of
‘‘obvious’’ limitations and/or ‘‘obvious’’
accommodations, the Commission does
not have enough information to agree
with those comments maintaining, for
example, that there should be a
nationwide standard establishing that it
always is obvious that all pregnant
employees need accommodations due to
lifting restrictions, avoiding certain
chemicals, or back pain, such that it
would never be reasonable for
employers to seek supporting
documentation when someone requests
accommodation due to these
limitations. Although there may be
circumstances under which these and
other limitations or accommodations are
obvious, when accompanied by selfconfirmation, the Commission does not
view these sorts of limitations or types
of accommodations as ‘‘obvious’’ in the
way that it is obvious that a pregnant
employee late in pregnancy needs a
larger uniform or properly fitting safety
equipment. Thus, the Commission did
not make any changes to the proposed
rule based on comments concerning
limitations or accommodations that
should be considered ‘‘obvious.’’
Not Reasonable To Seek Supporting
Documentation—Known
Although fewer comments mentioned
the proposed rule’s second example of
when it would not be reasonable for a
covered entity to seek documentation in
support of a request for PWFA
accommodation, some did suggest that
the term ‘‘sufficient information’’ was
too vague and asked if ‘‘information’’
was intended to encompass something
broader than ‘‘documentation.’’

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
This example is intended to prevent
covered entities from seeking
supporting documentation
unnecessarily. In the NPRM, the
Commission explained that information
is sufficient if it substantiates that the
employee has a known PWFA limitation
and needs a change or adjustment at
work. The word ‘‘information’’ was
intentionally used to make clear that it
does not have to be documentation from
a health care provider but can be
information provided by the employee
or their representative, such as a selfconfirmation of pregnancy, when
permitted, or confirmation from the
employee that the need, explained by
previously submitted documentation,
has occurred again. The example
provided in one of the comments
illustrates the need for this provision—
in this example, an employee who had
already provided documentation from
her health care provider was required to
provide a new doctor’s note for each
absence due to morning sickness, an
impossible requirement given that no
one would be able to see a doctor every
time they were too nauseous to go to
work. If an employee already has
provided documentation that because of
morning sickness they need to use
intermittent leave as necessary for the
next 2 months, the covered entity may
not seek new documentation from a
health care provider every time the
employee needs to use leave due to
morning sickness.
To ensure that this example is not
misunderstood to be broader than
intended, the Interpretive Guidance
makes clear in section 1636.3(l)(1)(ii)—
Known that when it is otherwise
reasonable under the circumstances to
seek supporting documentation, an
employer is not prohibited from doing
so simply because the employee has
stated that they have a PWFA limitation
and need an adjustment or change at
work.
The language in the final rule about
this example has been changed to follow
the language in the final rule regarding
the supporting documentation that may
be sought and to clarify that the
example applies whenever the employer
has sufficient information to determine
that the employee has a PWFA
limitation and needs an adjustment or
change at work, regardless of how the
employer obtains that information.
Thus, the Commission changed ‘‘When
the employee or applicant already has
provided the covered entity with
sufficient information to substantiate
that the employee or applicant has a
known limitation and that a change or
adjustment at work is needed;’’ to
‘‘When the employer already has

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

sufficient information to determine
whether the employee has a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions (a
limitation) and needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation.’’
Additionally in the Interpretive
Guidance for this section, the
Commission has added how this
provision may apply to episodic
conditions.
Not Reasonable To Seek Supporting
Documentation—Predictable
Assessments
The proposed rule provided a third
example of when it is not reasonable for
an employer to seek supporting
documentation: when an employee at
any time during their pregnancy states
or confirms that they are pregnant and
seeks one of the modifications described
as ‘‘predictable assessments’’ under
§ 1636.3(j)(4)(i) through (iv).
Many comments suggested that this
example be expanded to include
modifications beyond those recognized
as ‘‘predictable assessments’’ under
§ 1636.3(j)(4)(i) through (iv). Some of
these comments argued that the list
should be expanded because the
principles underlying whether a
particular accommodation warrants
medical certification differ from
concerns related to undue hardship. The
Commission declines to expand this
example. The recognized ‘‘predictable
assessments’’ reflect a small set of
simple, inexpensive, commonly sought
accommodations that are widely known
to be needed during an uncomplicated
pregnancy, and where documentation
would not be easily obtained or
necessary. In the Commission’s view,
the examples suggested for the possible
expansion of the rule do not fall within
this same category, although the
Commission agrees that in some
situations the modifications offered in
the comments would not require
supporting documentation and reminds
employers that they are not obligated to
seek supporting documentation.184
Moreover, because the proposed list of
accommodations that fit within this
example are limited to modifications
already singled out in § 1636.3(j)(4), the
example is clear and easy to apply.
184 The comments suggested the following
additions: time off, up to 8 weeks (or 12 weeks in
some comments) to recover from childbirth; time off
to attend up to 16 health care appointments while
pregnant; flexible scheduling or remote work for
nausea or bleeding; modifications to uniforms or
dress codes; minor physical modifications to the
workstation; relocation of the workstation; reprieve
from lifting over 20 pounds; and access to a closer
parking space, among others.

PO 00000

Frm 00039

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29133

One comment, focused more on the
proposed regulation’s discussion of
predictable assessments in an undue
hardship context, noted that employers
should be able to seek documentation to
confirm that the requested ‘‘predictable
assessments’’ modifications are needed
due to pregnancy, as opposed to some
other reason. The Commission agrees
that this example is limited to
pregnancy. Thus, under the final rule,
the employer is not permitted to seek
supporting documentation if the
employee asks for one of these
modifications due to a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy (a limitation)
and provides self-confirmation as
defined in § 1636.3(l)(4).185
Not Reasonable To Seek Supporting
Documentation—Lactation
The fourth example in the proposed
rule regarding when it is not reasonable
under the circumstances to seek
documentation concerns lactation and
pumping. A few comments noted that,
as written, the example suggests it is not
reasonable to seek additional supporting
documentation, as opposed to making
clear that no supporting documentation
may be requested. The Commission has
reworded this example for purposes of
clarification, in the final rule, as
explained below.
Another comment noted that the
example as written was overly broad
because it prohibits an employer from
asking for documentation anytime the
requested accommodation relates to
lactation. The comment noted that if, for
example, an individual requests to work
from home while breastfeeding or
requests accommodations due to anxiety
over a child’s difficulties learning to
bottle feed, the employer would be
prohibited from seeking supporting
documentation regarding such
requested accommodations.
The Commission agrees that the
language in the proposed rule could be
interpreted too broadly. The final rule
makes clear that it is not reasonable
under the circumstances for a covered
entity to seek supporting documentation
in response to a request for reasonable
accommodations involving lactation
and a time and/or place to pump at
work or any other modification related
to pumping at work. In response to
comments raising questions regarding
nursing during work hours, the final
185 A minor edit has been made to the final rule
to correctly identify the items listed in § 1636.3(j)(4)
as ‘‘modifications’’ and not ‘‘reasonable
accommodations.’’ As noted in the rule, these
modifications will virtually always be determined
to be reasonable accommodations that do not
impose an undue hardship.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29134

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

rule also explains that when the regular
location of the employee’s workplace
makes nursing during work hours a
possibility because the child is in close
proximity, it would not be reasonable to
seek supporting documentation in
response to a request for reasonable
accommodations involving a time to
nurse during work hours.186 This
example does not extend, however, to
accommodations involving lactation
beyond these modifications. Thus, for
example, if a lactating employee
requests full-time remote work due to a
condition that makes pumping difficult,
it may be reasonable for the covered
entity to seek reasonable documentation
about the limitation and need for remote
work, although it is not required to do
so.
The final rule is, therefore, modified
to clarify that when the reasonable
accommodation is related to a time and/
or place to pump, or any other
modification related to pumping at
work, and the employee has provided
self-confirmation as defined in
paragraph (l)(4), it is not reasonable to
request supporting documentation.
Likewise, it would not be reasonable to
seek documentation when the
accommodation is related to a time to
nurse when the regular location of the
employee’s workplace makes nursing
during work hours a possibility because
the child is in close proximity and the
employee has provided selfconfirmation of the fact, as defined in
paragraph (l)(4). The Commission has
added information regarding nursing
during work hours in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(l)(1)(iv)—
Lactation and made other minor
modifications.
Not Reasonable To Seek Supporting
Documentation—Employer’s Own
Policies or Practices (New
§ 1636.3(l)(1)(v))

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

The final rule contains a new example
of when it is not reasonable under the
circumstances for the employer to seek
supporting documentation. New
§ 1636.3(l)(1)(v) states that seeking
supporting documentation is not
reasonable under the circumstances
when the requested modification is one
that employees without known
limitations under the PWFA would
receive pursuant to the employer’s
186 ‘‘Nursing during work hours’’ is where the
regular location of the employee’s workplace makes
nursing during work hours a possibility because the
child is in close proximity and could include, for
example, when an employee who always teleworks
from home has their child at home and takes a
break to nurse the child, or when an employee takes
a break to travel to a nearby or onsite daycare center
to nurse.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

policy or practice without submitting
supporting documentation. For
example, if an employer has a policy or
practice of only seeking supporting
documentation for the use of leave if the
leave is for 3 or more consecutive days,
it would not be reasonable for the
employer to seek supporting
documentation from someone who
needs leave due to a known limitation
under the PWFA when they request
leave for 2 or fewer days.187 The
Commission has added information
from this paragraph in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(l)(1)(v)—
Employer’s Own Policies or Practices.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Self-Confirmation and
Concerns About Fraudulent Requests
Several comments requested that the
Commission provide a definition of
‘‘self-attestation.’’ Others argued that,
when it comes to pregnancy itself, selfattestation should always be sufficient
to avoid deterring requests for
accommodations, stigmatizing those
who need accommodations due to
pregnancy, or violating rights to privacy.
Yet other comments agreed that selfattestation of pregnancy should usually
be sufficient but suggested that the final
rule allow requests for documentation
when the employer has reason to
believe that there is ‘‘abuse.’’ Some
argued that self-attestation of pregnancy
should only be adequate when the
pregnancy is obvious and, in all other
circumstances, documentation of
pregnancy should be required. Still
others suggested that, while selfattestation was sufficient to establish
pregnancy, employers should develop
policies to address situations where
they have reason to believe an employee
who claimed to be pregnant is not being
honest.
The Commission agrees that a
definition of ‘‘self-attestation’’ is
necessary and also has determined that
the word ‘‘attestation’’ suggests too
formal a requirement. Instead, the final
rule uses the term ‘‘self-confirmation’’
and provides a definition at
§ 1636.3(l)(4). As explained above, the
final rule permits self-confirmation of
pregnancy when the pregnancy is
obvious and at any stage in a pregnancy
when the employee is requesting one of
the modifications outlined in
§ 1636.3(j)(4)(i) through (iv) due to
pregnancy. When the reasonable
187 Conversely, if regular employer practices
would require documentation when the PWFA
would not, or would require more documentation
than the PWFA would allow, in a situation where
the employee is requesting an accommodation
under the PWFA, the PWFA restrictions on
supporting documentation would apply.

PO 00000

Frm 00040

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

accommodation is related to a time and/
or place to pump at work, a time to
nurse during work hours (where the
regular location of the employee’s
workplace makes nursing during work
hours a possibility because the child is
in close proximity), or any other
modification related to pumping at
work, the final rule permits selfconfirmation of the fact that the
employee is pumping at work or nursing
during work hours.
In addition to comments arguing that
self-confirmation of pregnancy should
not be allowed when an employer has
‘‘reason to believe’’ there is abuse,
several comments expressed fear that
limiting an employer’s ability to seek
supporting documentation will lead to
fraudulent requests and prevent
employers from punishing those who lie
about limitations or the need for
accommodations.
In response, the Commission notes
that the final regulation permits
employers to seek supporting
documentation when it is reasonable
under the circumstances to determine
that the employee has a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions (a
limitation) and needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation.
Moreover, the PWFA itself does not
prohibit employers from taking
disciplinary action against those who
make false claims about limitations or
the need for accommodations. The
Commission urges covered entities to
follow the advice of the comment
proposing that employers should have
clear policies in place regarding how to
address fraud, dishonesty, and abuse. It
is, of course, also the case that an
employee may not be punished for
seeking an accommodation even if it is
ultimately determined that they are not
entitled to one under the law.
The Commission declines to
implement the suggestion that the final
rule include a provision stating it would
not violate the PWFA’s anti-retaliation
and anti-coercion provisions if a
covered entity punished someone who
falsely claimed to need a reasonable
accommodation. The final rule, like the
proposed rule, explains the
requirements for establishing that a
covered entity has retaliated against or
coerced someone in violation of the
PWFA. Moreover, it would not violate
the PWFA to fail to provide an
accommodation to an individual who
failed to establish they were entitled to
one, assuming the covered entity abided
by the requirements and prohibitions of
the PWFA. Of course, the Commission
cautions that neither those seeking

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
accommodations under the PWFA nor
those charged with responding to such
requests may lie during their
interactions.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Suggesting Other Frameworks for the
Final Rule on Supporting
Documentation
Another documentation framework
suggested by comments was that
covered entities may seek supporting
documentation except when: (1) the
need for accommodation is obvious; and
(2) the covered entity’s requirement
conflicts with their stated policy on
non-pregnancy-related requests for
accommodations. Another comment
argued that while covered entities
should not typically be able to seek
supporting documentation, they should
be able to do so if someone claims to be
pregnant but never gives birth or
supplies a birth certificate or is
requesting accommodations for fertility
treatments.
The Commission declines to adopt
either of these suggestions. The first
suggestion appears to be a combination
of the proposed rule’s example of
‘‘obvious’’ conditions and an
acknowledgment that employers already
provide accommodations to employees
in certain situations without seeking
supporting documentation. The
Commission declines to make this
change, although the first example of
when it would not be reasonable under
the circumstances to seek
documentation in the final rule is based
on the ‘‘obvious’’ conditions and
accommodations, as explained above.
The Commission declines to make the
changes in the other comment because
it does not account for many situations,
such as where an employer may need
details about a lifting restriction or need
for remote work during pregnancy or
any type of limitation post-partum.
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation
The proposed rule explained that
when it is reasonable under the
circumstances to require supporting
documentation to determine whether to
grant the accommodation, the covered
entity is permitted only to require
‘‘reasonable documentation.’’ The
proposed rule defined ‘‘reasonable
documentation’’ as documentation that
is sufficient to describe or confirm: (1)
the physical or mental condition; (2)
that it is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; and (3) that
an adjustment or change at work is
needed.
Many comments argued that the
definition of ‘‘reasonable

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

documentation’’ should be revised to
state that the documentation does not
need to identify the nature of, or
provide a detailed description of, the
physical or mental condition that is the
known limitation. These comments
suggested that reasonable
documentation be limited to
documentation that: (1) confirms the
individual has a limitation that is
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, and (2) explains
that a change at work is needed due to
the limitation. Some comments
expressed concern about protecting the
privacy of employees and urged that
‘‘reasonable documentation’’ be limited
to the ‘‘minimum information’’
necessary to assess the condition’s
nexus to pregnancy, childbirth, or a
related medical condition. The
comments noted, for example, that
supporting documentation need not
state that an employee has to attend a
medical appointment related to a
miscarriage, but can simply state that
the employee needs to attend a medical
appointment during work hours due to
pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition and thus needs a
modified start time on a particular day;
or the employee has a prohibition on
lifting more than 50 pounds in
connection with a condition related to
pregnancy and thus needs an
accommodation that eliminates the need
to lift more than 50 pounds. In support
of this suggestion, the comments
explained that asking employees to
disclose detailed medical information to
their employers, especially information
related to reproductive and mental
health, which can be particularly
sensitive or stigmatizing, may deter
employees from seeking
accommodations.188 Comments also
noted that limiting reasonable
documentation to confirming the related
medical condition would help protect
patient privacy, which the comments
188 Although not directly on point, one comment
suggested that allowing employers to request
supporting documentation about an employee’s
anticipated or actual abortion, i.e., information
about the specific condition that is the known
limitation or the specific related medical condition,
would potentially conflict with a proposed rule
currently under consideration by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services
concerning the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) and heightened
confidentiality requirements for information related
to reproductive health care. In response, the
Commission notes that HIPAA applies to health
care providers, employers are not required to obtain
supporting documentation under the PWFA, and
any such documentation must be kept confidential,
as explained in the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) under Prohibition on Disability-Related
Inquiries and Medical Examinations and Protection
of Medical Information.

PO 00000

Frm 00041

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29135

said could be especially important for
employees obtaining abortions or facing
intimate partner violence.
The Commission agrees that
protecting patient privacy is an
important goal and that covered entities
should be limited to seeking the
minimum documentation needed to
determine if an employee is entitled to
a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA. However, the Commission also
recognizes that there may be situations
when an employer needs
documentation to determine whether
the employee has a PWFA limitation
and the adjustment or change at work is
needed due to the limitation.
To take account of these interests, the
Commission made several changes to
the definition of ‘‘reasonable
documentation.’’
First, the Commission modified the
proposed definition of ‘‘reasonable
documentation’’ to clarify that
reasonable documentation means ‘‘the
minimum that is sufficient,’’ rather than
merely stating that reasonable
documentation means documentation
that is ‘‘sufficient.’’
Second, because all that is required is
the minimum documentation that is
sufficient, the Commission has changed
the language in the regulation to specify
that the supporting documentation need
only confirm (rather than ‘‘describe or
confirm’’) the physical or mental
condition. The Commission has
included the language from
§ 1636.3(a)(2) in § 1636.3(l)(2)(i)
defining a physical or mental condition
(i.e., an impediment or problem that
may be modest, minor, and/or episodic;
a need or a problem related to
maintaining the employee’s health or
the health of the pregnancy; or an
employee seeking health care related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition itself). Finally, in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation,
the Commission has explained that this
confirmation can be accomplished
through a simple statement and that it
does not need to include a diagnosis.
Third, again because all that is
required is the minimum
documentation that is sufficient, the
Commission has changed the language
in the regulation to specify that the
supporting documentation need only
confirm (rather than ‘‘describe or
confirm’’) that the physical or mental
condition is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions and has
explained in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable
Documentation that pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29136

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

need not be the sole, the original, or a
substantial cause of the physical or
mental condition given that the
statutory language only requires that
physical or mental condition be ‘‘related
to, affected by, or arising out of’’
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’
Fourth, the final rule provides that the
supporting documentation should
describe (rather than ‘‘describe or
confirm’’) the adjustment or change
needed at work and has added that the
adjustment or change needed at work
must be ‘‘due to the limitation’’ in order
to ensure that the documentation
connects the physical or mental
condition with the adjustment or change
at work.
In the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable
Documentation, the Commission has
added information explaining how
seeking more documentation than is set
out in § 1636.3(l) can violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)) (if the
employer fails to provide the
accommodation based on lack of
documentation) and how seeking
additional documentation or
information beyond what is permitted
in § 1636.3(l) when an employee
requests a reasonable accommodation
may violate the PWFA’s prohibitions on
retaliation in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)).189
The Commission also has added
examples in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable
Documentation to illustrate when
documentation from a health care
provider is sufficient.
Generally, as explained in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation,
confirming the physical or mental
condition requires only a simple
statement that the physical or mental
condition meets the first part of the
definition of ‘‘limitation’’ at
§ 1636.3(a)(2) (i.e., the physical or
mental condition is: an impediment or
problem, including ones that are
modest, minor, or episodic; a need or a
problem related to maintaining the
health of the employee or the
pregnancy; or that the employee is
seeking health care related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition itself). Because the
physical or mental condition can be
something like fatigue or vomiting, there
is no need for the statement to contain
a medical diagnosis. Thus, as set out in
the Interpretive Guidance in section
189 The Commission has moved the examples that
were in the proposed appendix (formerly Examples
#36 and #37) to § 1636.5(f).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation,
documentation is sufficient under
§ 1636.3(l)(2) even if it does not contain
a medical diagnosis, as long as it has a
simple statement of the physical or
mental condition.
The physical or mental condition
must be related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. The supporting
documentation need not state that the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions are the sole, the
original, or a substantial cause of the
physical or mental condition at issue,
because the statute only requires that
the physical or mental condition be
‘‘related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’ If relevant, the
documentation should include
confirmation that the ‘‘related medical
condition’’ is related to pregnancy or
childbirth.
The documentation should describe
what adjustment or change at work is
needed due to the limitation. The
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation
provides examples of these.
Other comments pointed out that
reasonable documentation should
include information about the duration
of the limitation. These comments
observed that while some limitations
may continue for the entire length of a
pregnancy, the duration of other
limitations, such as a postpartum
limitation that requires leave, may be
less definite. The comments also noted
that the expected duration of the
limitation and corresponding
accommodation can be a key factor in
determining whether the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship, or whether an essential
function(s) could be performed ‘‘in the
near future.’’ The Commission generally
agrees with this point but concludes
that it would be more useful for covered
entities to have information about the
expected duration of the needed
modification, rather than the duration of
the limitation itself. The Commission
also believes including information
about the duration of the modification
could address concerns other comments
raised about the need for periodic
updates of documentation. If, for
example, supporting documentation
indicates that a pregnant employee
would need an hour of leave every
morning due to morning sickness for the
first 3 months of the pregnancy, the
employer would be permitted to request
updated documentation at the end of
those 3 months if the employee
requested that the accommodation
continue. Thus, the Interpretive

PO 00000

Frm 00042

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Guidance states that an estimate of the
expected duration of the modification
may be part of the supporting
documentation sought by the employer,
if necessary.190
Numerous comments argued that
covered entities may not require
employees to use a specific form for
supporting documentation, as long as
the necessary information is provided.
These and other comments also
expressed concern about employers who
require employees seeking
accommodations under the PWFA to
submit specific forms that call for
extensive medical information. One
comment submitted, as attachments,
several examples of forms that
employees requesting accommodations
under the PWFA have been required to
use. These forms require information
beyond the description of ‘‘reasonable
documentation’’ presented in the
proposed rule and adopted by this final
rule. The forms submitted sought
extensive information, including:
whether the individual had previously
requested an accommodation; validation
that the individual could perform a long
list of essential functions, irrespective of
the accommodation being requested;
identification of any diagnoses,
impairments, or conditions that might
affect the individual’s ability to perform
essential job functions or major life
activities; description of side effects of
any treatment received; the length of
time the impairment or condition had
been treated; the expected duration of
each impairment or condition; and
whether the health care practitioner
considered the condition in question to
be a disability. The comments also
noted that some covered entities reject
supporting documentation based on
190 The Commission is aware of case law under
the ADA indicating that, when determining
whether the reasonable accommodation of leave
will enable an employee to perform the essential
functions of a position ‘‘in the near future,’’ the
focus should be on the expected duration of the
impairment, as opposed to the expected duration of
the needed leave. See, e.g., Punt v. Kelly Servs., 862
F.3d 1040, 1051 (10th Cir. 2017); Aubrey v. Koppes,
975 F.3d 995, 1010–11 (10th Cir. 2020); Herrmann,
21 F.4th at 676–77. In those cases, courts appear to
be concerned about situations where the end of the
leave and the ability to return to work are not
coterminous. Because many accommodations under
the PWFA will be for temporary conditions, the
Commission expects that this issue will not arise
with frequency. For example, if an employee needs
an essential function temporarily suspended until
the end of their pregnancy, the end of the
suspension and the end of their pregnancy are the
same time. The Commission also is concerned that
using the duration of the limitation could lead to
inaccurate information. An employee may, for
example, have a limitation that will last for an
entire pregnancy, such as an inability to be around
certain chemicals, but only needs a change at work
for the 2-month period during which the job in
question involves proximity to those chemicals.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

technical issues, such as use of the
wrong form.
Other comments argued that instead
of prohibiting the use of specific forms
to request documentation, the final rule
should create a PWFA certification
form, similar to the FMLA certification
form, that covered entities could use to
request documentation and that would
provide what comments called a ‘‘safe
harbor.’’
The final rule provides that when a
covered entity is permitted to seek
supporting documentation under this
rule, it may not require that supporting
documentation be submitted on a
specific form. This is consistent with
similar rules under the FMLA 191 and
the ADA 192 and recognizes that
although employers may seek
supporting documentation, they should
not burden employees or health care
providers with unnecessary technical
requirements in their efforts to obtain
the information.
Finally, the final rule does not
include a ‘‘PWFA certification form.’’
Covered entities should comply with
the PWFA’s rule on supporting
documentation by only seeking
supporting documentation when it is
reasonable under the circumstances
and, in those cases, requesting only
reasonable documentation, as defined in
the final rule. The Commission fears
that designing a PWFA certification
form will create an assumption that
supporting documentation is necessary
in every case. It is not, and indeed it is
barred in many circumstances.
Employers are not required to obtain
documentation for any reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA and
are encouraged to minimize
documentation burdens on employees
seeking accommodation under the
PWFA whenever possible.
The final rule therefore states, at new
§ 1636.3(l)(2)(i), that when it is
reasonable under the circumstances, as
established in paragraph (l)(1), to seek
supporting documentation, the covered
entity is limited to seeking reasonable
documentation. Reasonable
documentation means the minimum
that is sufficient to: (A) confirm the
191 See U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Wage & Hour Division,
The Employer’s Guide to the Family and Medical
Leave Act 32, https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/
files/WHD/legacy/files/employerguide.pdf (last
visited Mar. 18, 2024) (‘‘The employer must accept
a complete and sufficient medical certification,
regardless of the format. The employer cannot reject
a medical certification that contains all the
information needed to determine if the leave is
FMLA-qualifying.’’).
192 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at Question 6
(explaining that employers may only request
reasonable documentation).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

physical or mental condition (i.e., an
impediment or problem that may be
modest, minor, and/or episodic; a need
or a problem related to maintaining the
employee’s health or the health of the
pregnancy; or an employee seeking
health care related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical
condition itself) whether or not such
condition meets the definition of
disability specified in the ADA; (B)
confirm that the physical or mental
condition is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (together
with paragraph (l)(2)(i)(A), ‘‘a
limitation’’); and (C) describe the
adjustment or change at work that is
needed due to the limitation.
Furthermore, new § 1636.3(l)(2)(ii)
states that covered entities may not
require that supporting documentation
be submitted on a specific form.
1636.3(l)(3) Limitations on a Covered
Entity Seeking Supporting
Documentation From a Health Care
Provider
The proposed rule explained that if a
covered entity decides to seek
supporting documentation and meets
the requirements set forth in the rule,
the covered entity may require that the
reasonable documentation come from a
health care provider. Comments
suggested one additional type of health
care provider, an industrial hygienist,
and also questioned whether ‘‘doula’’
should be included. The Commission
has added ‘‘industrial hygienist’’ to the
list and has moved the reference to
‘‘doula’’ to a place on the list closer to
health care providers who offer similar
services. Many comments also
recommended that the Commission
affirmatively state that the health care
provider could be one that provides
services through telehealth; the
Commission has made that addition in
the regulation. The final rule also
slightly reorders the listed health care
providers so that those focused on
mental health care are listed together,
adds ‘‘psychiatrist,’’ which was
unintentionally left out of the proposed
list, and changes the term ‘‘providers’’
in ‘‘mental health care providers’’ to
‘‘professionals,’’ to parallel the term
used in the Commission’s ADA policy
guidance.193
Some comments focused on the first
part of the proposed rule’s list of health
care providers, i.e., ‘‘A covered entity
may require documentation comes from
an appropriate health care provider, in
a particular situation,’’ and suggested
that the words ‘‘appropriate’’ and ‘‘in a
193 See id.

PO 00000

Frm 00043

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29137

particular situation’’ be removed in the
final rule. The comments argued that
these words give covered entities
unnecessary power over the type of
health care provider an employee
should visit. The Commission
concludes that these qualifiers are
unnecessary and that it should be up to
the employee seeking care and the
health care provider providing care to
determine what type of health care
provider can best serve the person’s
needs. The final rule therefore removes
these words.
Other comments suggested that the
final rule make clear that the treating
physician does not need to be the one
to provide the reasonable
documentation, pointing to privacy
concerns in relation to certain kinds of
medical care; these comments cited the
example of abortion care. The comments
stated that a health care provider
familiar with the employee’s
circumstances should be allowed to
provide the necessary information even
if they are not the person treating the
condition in question. As noted above,
when an employer is permitted to seek
supporting documentation, they are
only permitted to seek reasonable
documentation, which means the
minimum that is sufficient to: (A)
confirm the physical or mental
condition (i.e., an impediment or
problem that may be modest, minor,
and/or episodic; a need or a problem
related to maintaining the employee’s
health or the health of the pregnancy; or
an employee seeking health care related
to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition itself) whether or not
such condition meets the definition of
disability specified in the ADA; (B)
confirm that the physical or mental
condition is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (together
with paragraph (l)(2)(i)(A), ‘‘a
limitation’’); and (C) describe the
adjustment or change at work that is
needed due to the limitation. Any
health care provider familiar enough
with the individual’s circumstances to
provide the described information may
do so under the final rule, whether or
not they are treating the individual for
the condition at issue.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Prohibition on Examinations
by Employer’s Health Care Provider
The NPRM stated that it is not
practical or necessary for a covered
entity to request or require that an
employee be examined by a health care
provider of the covered entity’s
choosing.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29138

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Most of the comments on this
proposal agreed that covered entities
should never be able to require
individuals requesting accommodation
under the PWFA to be examined by a
health care provider of the covered
entity’s choosing. Comments explained
that this would cause an unnecessary
invasion of privacy, have a chilling
effect, burden employees unnecessarily,
and cause delay. Some comments noted
that such a requirement would have a
particularly negative effect on
individuals seeking abortion care and
women of color who face racism in
health care and may be particularly
reluctant to go to a new provider
selected by their employer. A few
comments disagreed with the proposed
rule, noting that second opinions should
be permitted since they are permitted
under the FMLA, that some employees
may not have a doctor, and/or that
employers who do not want to provide
the accommodation supported by the
employee’s doctor will need to seek the
opinion of their own doctor.
The final rule prohibits covered
entities from requiring that an employee
be examined by a health care provider
of the covered entity’s choosing.
Although such a practice is allowed in
certain cases under the ADA and the
FMLA, even under those laws the
practice is limited.194 The PWFA covers
many common physical or mental
conditions for which there will never be
a need for a medical diagnosis, and
accommodations under the PWFA will
usually be temporary. This supports a
final rule under the PWFA that
prohibits examinations by the
employer’s health care provider, even in
the limited situations in which the
practice is permitted under the ADA.
The final rule, for these reasons and
to avoid the chilling effect, burdens, and
194 Under the FMLA, an employer can only
require a second opinion (at the employer’s
expense) if it has ‘‘reason to doubt the validity of
a medical certification.’’ 29 CFR 825.307(b). The
employer can choose the health care provider to
provide the second opinion but generally may not
select a health care provider that it employs or
contracts with on a regular basis. For the third
opinion (also at the employer’s expense), if one is
sought, the health care provider must be jointly
designated or approved by the employer and the
employee. 29 CFR 825.307(c). Under the ADA, the
practice is allowed only if the individual provides
insufficient information from their own health care
provider and, even in those circumstances, ADA
guidance explains that the employer should explain
why the documentation is insufficient and allow
the individual an opportunity to provide the
missing information in a timely manner. The ADA
also requires the employer to pay all costs
associated with the visit and requires that the
examination be limited to determining the existence
of an ADA disability and the functional limitations
that require reasonable accommodation. See
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 111, at Question 7.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

potential delays outlined in the
comments, states that a covered entity
may not require that the employee
seeking the accommodation be
examined by a health care provider
selected by the covered entity.
1636.3(l)(4) Formerly Proposed
Confidentiality/New Final SelfConfirmation of Pregnancy or Lactation
As explained supra in the preamble in
section 1636.3(l)(1) Seeking Supporting
Documentation Only When Reasonable
Under the Circumstances, the final rule
at § 1636.3(l)(4) provides a definition for
self-confirmation of pregnancy or
lactation. The corresponding section in
the Interpretive Guidance, 1636.3(l)(4)
Self-Confirmation of Pregnancy or
Lactation, explains how this is a simple
procedure that can occur in the same
conversation where the employee
requests an accommodation.
The proposed rule, § 1636.3(l)(4), and
the corresponding discussion in the
proposed appendix, described the
ADA’s prohibition on disclosure of
confidential medical information,
including medical information obtained
under the PWFA. Because these legal
protections arise from the ADA and not
the PWFA, the Commission removed
reference to them in the PWFA
regulation itself. The relevant
protections are now described in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) under Prohibition on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information. This section explains, as
did the NPRM, that while the PWFA
does not have its own provision
requiring the protection of medical
information, employees covered by the
PWFA also are covered by the ADA,
and, under the ADA, covered entities
are required to keep medical
information confidential, with limited
exceptions.195 The NPRM also stated
that intentional disclosure of medical
information obtained through the
PWFA’s reasonable accommodation
process may violate the PWFA’s
prohibition on retaliation and/or
coercion.196 Information regarding how
the disclosure of medical information
also may violate the retaliation
provision of the PWFA is in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f) under Possible Violations of 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) Based on
Seeking Supporting Documentation
During the Reasonable Accommodation
Process and Disclosure of Medical
Information.
195 88 FR 54738, 54789.
196 Id. at 54744, 54789, 54793.

PO 00000

Frm 00044

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

1636.4 Formerly Proposed Prohibited
Practices/New Final Nondiscrimination
With Regard to Reasonable
Accommodations Related to Pregnancy
The Commission changed the title of
§ 1636.4 in the regulation and the
corresponding section of the
Interpretive Guidance to match the title
of this section in the statute.
1636.4(a) Failing To Provide Reasonable
Accommodation
The Commission did not receive
comments suggesting changes to
§ 1636.4(a). The Commission made only
one minor change to that part of the
regulation, to change the terminology
used there (and throughout the
preamble, regulation, and Interpretive
Guidance) from ‘‘denial’’ of reasonable
accommodation to ‘‘failure to provide’’
reasonable accommodation. This better
reflects the language in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1), which makes it ‘‘an
unlawful employment practice for a
covered entity to’’ ‘‘not make reasonable
accommodations.’’ Throughout the
preamble, regulation, and the
Interpretive Guidance, the Commission
uses ‘‘failure to provide a reasonable
accommodation’’ and ‘‘not make
reasonable accommodation’’
interchangeably. In § 1636.4(a)(1)
through (4) in the regulation, in addition
to the changes described below, the
Commission has added language to the
effect that these sections apply to
‘‘qualified employees’’ with ‘‘known
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ so that they use the same
language as 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) and
§ 1636.4(a).
1636.4(a)(1) Formerly Proposed
Unnecessary Delay in Responding to a
Request for Reasonable
Accommodation/New Final
Unnecessary Delay in Providing a
Reasonable Accommodation
The Commission received several
comments regarding the importance of
making delay in the provision of a
reasonable accommodation actionable.
First, numerous comments
recommended that the Commission
clarify that ‘‘unnecessary delay in
responding to the request for a
reasonable accommodation’’ (the
language in § 1636.4(a)(1) in the
proposed rule) would cover delay in all
parts of the reasonable accommodation
process, including delay in responding
to the initial request, engaging in the
interactive process, or providing the
reasonable accommodation. The
Commission agrees that the intent of the
phrase ‘‘delay in responding to the

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
request for a reasonable
accommodation’’ encompasses delay in
any part of the reasonable
accommodation process. To clarify this
point, the Commission has changed the
language in the rule to ‘‘unnecessary
delay in providing a reasonable
accommodation,’’ has changed the title
of this provision in the Interpretive
Guidance in section to 1636.4(a)(1)
Unnecessary Delay in Providing a
Reasonable Accommodation and has
added examples of the different ways
this could manifest in the Interpretive
Guidance for this section.
Second, one comment recommended
clarifying that a delay by a third-party
administrator acting for the covered
entity is attributable to the covered
entity. The Commission agrees and has
added that information in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.4(a)(1) Unnecessary Delay in
Providing a Reasonable
Accommodation.
Third, numerous comments suggested
adding that the ‘‘urgency’’ of the need
for the accommodation be included as a
factor, to account for situations where
the need for the accommodation is an
emergency. The Commission declines to
add this as a factor because defining
‘‘urgency’’ would be difficult and could
lead to unnecessary litigation regarding
whether or not something was ‘‘urgent.’’
However, the Commission has added
information regarding emergencies in
the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.3(k) under Engaging in the
Interactive Process.
Numerous comments also suggested
removing the factor in paragraph
(a)(1)(vi) of the proposed rule (the factor
in paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of the final rule),
which provides that delay in providing
a reasonable accommodation is more
likely to be excused where an interim
reasonable accommodation is offered
and that the interim reasonable
accommodation cannot be leave, unless
certain circumstances apply. Comments
argued that the factor in paragraph
(a)(1)(vi) of the proposed rule could
encourage covered entities to rely on
interim accommodations and engage in
delay. The Commission recognizes this
risk, but, given the numerous comments
that argued in favor of requiring
employers to provide interim reasonable
accommodations, the Commission
believes that creating an incentive for
the provision of interim reasonable
accommodations is important.
Responding to the comments, the
Commission has limited the use of leave
to excuse an unnecessary delay to the
situations where an employee requests
or selects leave as an interim reasonable
accommodation. The Commission also

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

has removed the sentence, ‘‘[i]f an
interim reasonable accommodation is
offered, delay by the covered entity is
more likely to be excused’’ from
proposed § 1636.4(a)(1)(vi) (now
§ 1636.4(a)(1)(vii)). The language in
§ 1636.4(a)(1) stating that these are
factors to be considered in determining
whether there has been unnecessary
delay already explains this concept.
The Commission has included an
additional factor for determining
whether delay is unnecessary—how
long the accommodation may be
required. This factor accounts for
situations where the accommodation is
a short-term matter, and, by
unnecessarily delaying the response, the
covered entity, in effect, fails to provide
the accommodation. This factor is in
keeping with the discussion of delay in
the NPRM, which noted that ‘‘[g]iven
that pregnancy-related limitations are
frequently temporary, a delay in
providing an accommodation may mean
that the period necessitating the
accommodation could pass without
action simply because of the delay.’’ 197
1636.4(a)(2) Refusing an
Accommodation
The Commission received a few
comments regarding § 1636.4(a)(2),
which provides that a qualified
employee does not have to accept an
accommodation. If the employee cannot
perform the essential functions of the
position without the accommodation,
the employee is not qualified. The
proposed rule required employers also
to consider whether the employee could
be qualified with the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s).
The comments stated that the proposed
rule created a situation where the
employee could refuse the reasonable
accommodation that allowed them to
perform the essential functions of the
position because the employee would
prefer an accommodation that allowed
them to suspend an essential function(s)
and this, in effect, would remove the
employer’s ‘‘ultimate discretion’’ in
choosing between effective
accommodations. In order to address
this issue, the Commission changed this
paragraph in the final regulation so that
it does not give the impression that an
employee can reject a reasonable
accommodation that allows them to do
the essential function(s) of their position
in order to have an essential function(s)
of the position temporarily suspended.
197 88 FR 54739, 54789.

PO 00000

Frm 00045

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29139

1636.4(a)(3) Covered Entity Failing To
Provide a Reasonable Accommodation
Due to Lack of Supporting
Documentation
The Commission has made four
changes to this section of the regulation
in order to make it align with
§ 1636.3(l), the provision regarding the
limits on supporting documentation,
and has reflected these changes in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.4(a)(3) Covered Entity Failing To
Provide a Reasonable Accommodation
Due to Lack of Supporting
Documentation. First, the Commission
has added as § 1636.4(a)(3)(i) that the
covered entity must have sought the
supporting documentation. The
Commission has maintained as
§ 1636.4(a)(3)(ii) that seeking supporting
documentation must be reasonable
under the circumstances as set out in
§ 1636.3(l)(1). Second, the Commission
has added at § 1636.4(a)(3)(iii) that the
supporting documentation sought must
be ‘‘reasonable documentation’’ as
defined by § 1636.3(l)(2). Third, the
Commission has added at
§ 1636.4(a)(3)(iv) that the employer must
provide the employee sufficient time to
obtain and provide the supporting
documentation. Fourth, the Commission
has added the word ‘‘unnecessary’’
before the word ‘‘delay’’ because an
employer only has to justify
unnecessary delay.
Finally, the Commission has
reformatted this section to indicate the
different requirements.
1636.4(a)(4) Choosing Among Possible
Accommodations
The Commission received several
comments about this provision. These
comments pointed out that ‘‘similarly
situated’’ is a term that courts have
narrowly construed and that its use here
could impede ensuring that employees
receive the accommodations that
provide equal opportunity. Some
comments suggested adding that equal
employment opportunity can be
determined based on evidence of the
opportunities that would have been
available to the employee had they not
identified a known limitation or sought
an accommodation.
The Commission agrees that
modifications should be made in this
section to protect qualified employees
and to minimize the need for litigation.
Thus, the regulation provides that the
‘‘average employee’’ who is ‘‘similarly
situated’’ without a known limitation
can include the qualified employee
themselves, and the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.4(a)(4)
Choosing Among Possible

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29140

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Accommodations contains additional
information regarding evidence about
possible comparators. Other comments
suggested adding that the similarly
situated employees should be similar in
material respects, not all respects; the
Commission agrees that this is true for
similarly situated employees in general
but did not add this concept to the
regulation.
The Commission also received some
comments recommending the addition
of another standard, requiring
employers to choose an option that most
effectively meets the employee’s needs
and provides the employee with equal
employment opportunity. The
Commission declines to make this
change. Employers must provide an
accommodation that is effective. The
employer does not have to provide the
‘‘most effective’’ accommodation or the
accommodation that is the choice of the
qualified employee. The Commission
also received a comment recommending
that the Commission add a provision to
the rule stating that employers may not
select any accommodation that
negatively affects an employee’s terms
or conditions of employment at any
time. The Commission did not add this
because adopting a requirement that
employers may not select an
accommodation that ‘‘negatively
affects’’ terms or conditions would be a
new standard, and the general concept
of this comment is covered by the
provision requiring equal employment
opportunity.
One comment suggested an employer
should provide the employee with a
choice of options that are responsive to
the employee’s needs and allow the
employee to choose from the options.
This comment asserted that doing so
would decrease litigation for the
employer. While the Commission agrees
that this is a best practice and may help
the covered entity avoid litigation, the
Commission did not add this idea to the
regulation or the Interpretive Guidance.
Finally, the Commission reordered
the sentences in this provision in the
regulation and removed the phrase ‘‘that
do not cause an undue hardship’’ from
this section of the regulation because it
is redundant. The covered entity does
not have to provide an accommodation
that causes an undue hardship.
1636.4(b) Requiring a Qualified
Employee To Accept an
Accommodation
The Commission received a few
comments regarding this provision. One
comment argued that the interactive
process is not always necessary. The
Commission agrees that for some simple
accommodations, the interactive process

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

can be a very quick conversation where
the employee provides information to
the covered entity and the covered
entity provides the accommodation.
However, covered entities may not
require a qualified employee to accept
an accommodation other than one
arrived at through the interactive
process under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2).
Thus, employers should not provide
employees with an accommodation
because the covered entity thinks the
accommodation is ‘‘obvious.’’ Rather,
the covered entity should engage the
employee in the interactive process,
even if it is very abbreviated.
The Commission received a few
comments suggesting changes to the
description of damages that could be
available in Example #39 in the
proposed rule. The Commission agrees
that the damages suggested by the
comments could be available and has
made changes to the example, which is
now Example #57 in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.4(b) Requiring
a Qualified Employee To Accept an
Accommodation.
1636.4(c) Denying Opportunities to
Qualified Employees
The Commission did not receive
comments regarding this provision. The
Commission maintained the language
from the proposed rule for this
provision. The Commission also has
made minor changes in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.4(c) Denying
Opportunities to Qualified Employees
for this provision.
1636.4(d) Requiring a Qualified
Employee To Take Leave
The Commission maintained the
language from the proposed rule for this
provision. The Commission also has
made minor changes in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.4(d) Requiring
a Qualified Employee To Take Leave for
this provision.
Some comments involving this
section raised questions about whether
an employer may temporarily require
the employee to take leave in situations
when the employee cannot work
without an accommodation. The
Commission has responded to these
comments in the preamble in section
1636.3(h) under Interim Reasonable
Accommodations. Other comments
expressed concerns that this provision
would prohibit an employee from
requesting leave as a reasonable
accommodation. As explained in the
proposed rule, the proposed appendix,
and the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.4(d) Requiring a Qualified
Employee To Take Leave, this is
incorrect—the prohibition on requiring

PO 00000

Frm 00046

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

a qualified employee to take leave does
not prohibit an employee from
requesting leave as a reasonable
accommodation.
1636.4(e) Adverse Action on Account of
Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation
The Commission received a few
comments regarding the definition of
‘‘adverse action,’’ including comments
that disagreed with the Commission’s
definition and instead recommended
using the definition of ‘‘adverse
employment action’’; comments that
suggested that the Commission include
its proposed definition in the regulation
itself; and a few comments agreeing
with its definition of ‘‘terms, conditions,
or privileges of employment.’’
The Commission disagrees that
‘‘adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment’’ should have
the same meaning as courts have given
the term ‘‘adverse employment action.’’
Given the divergent views of the circuits
at the time of this writing, adopting the
definition of ‘‘adverse employment
action’’ in interpreting 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) would lead to different
outcomes in different circuits and could
reduce protections for employees
covered by the PWFA.198
The Commission has retained the
language in the proposed regulation, as
well as the language from the proposed
appendix, with minor changes.
Specifically, the Commission has
removed language from the proposed
appendix about this standard not
appearing in Title VII or the ADA, and
the reference to the basic dictionary
definition ‘‘adverse,’’ because it has
determined that this information is not
necessary to the explanation of this
provision. The Commission also has
reorganized the paragraphs in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.4(e) Adverse Action on Account of
Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation and made a few minor
edits to the examples for this section.
The Commission has added language to
Example #58 in section 1636.4(e)
Adverse Action on Account of
Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation (proposed Example
#40) to clarify that when an employee
receives leave as a reasonable
accommodation, production standards
such as sales quotas may need to be
198 Compare, e.g., Muldrow v. City of St. Louis, 30
F.4th 680 (8th Cir. 2022) (concluding that a transfer
is not an adverse employment action absent
materially significant disadvantage), cert. granted in
part, 143 S. Ct. 2686 (2023), with Threat v. City of
Cleveland, 6 F.4th 672, 678–79 (6th Cir. 2021)
(concluding that an ‘‘adverse employment action’’
may include shift changes and reassignments).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
prorated to ensure that leave is an
effective accommodation, as discussed
infra in the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.3(h) under Ensuring That
Employees Are Not Penalized for Using
Reasonable Accommodations.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.5 Remedies and Enforcement
Some comments expressed general
concerns regarding enforcement,
including a concern that employees
would find it too difficult to enforce
their rights under the law, a suggestion
that the Commission find a way to
enforce the law quickly, and a
recommendation that the Commission
create a safe harbor for small businesses
that would allow businesses with 15 to
50 employees the opportunity to fix a
violation once it was brought to their
attention and that would permit a
finding of liability only following
repeated or willful violations.
The Commission agrees that it is
important that employees be able to
enforce their rights; to that end, the
Commission conducts outreach with
employees on a regular basis. The
Commission shares the desire for
expeditious compliance; this regulation
is one step in furtherance of that goal.
The Commission conducts significant
outreach to small businesses to help
them with compliance; employers can
obtain more information about these
opportunities at: https://www.eeoc.gov/
employers/small-business. Finally, the
Commission does not have the authority
to create an exemption for small
employers; however, the Commission
notes that damages in cases regarding
the provision of a reasonable
accommodation can be limited by the
employer’s good-faith efforts.199
In the final rule, the Commission has
removed section § 1636.5(b) because it
applies to employees protected by the
Congressional Accountability Act.
Throughout this section of this
regulation, the Commission has
replaced references to ‘‘this section’’
with ‘‘the PWFA’’ to clarify that the
powers, remedies, and procedures
referenced in this section are provided
by the statute itself.
1636.5(a) Remedies and Enforcement
Under Title VII
The final rule at § 1636.5(a) is the
same as the proposed rule. The
Commission has added information in
the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(a) Remedies and Enforcement
Under Title VII to inform employees and
covered entities regarding the time limit
for filing charges under the PWFA,
based on how the Commission enforces
199 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(g).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

other statutes for which it is
responsible.
1636.5(e) Remedies and Enforcement
Under Section 717 of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964
In the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.5(e) Remedies and
Enforcement Under Section 717 of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the
Commission has added information
from the NPRM regarding the
application of § 1636.5(e).200
Damages
In the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.5 under Damages, the
Commission has added information
regarding the damages available under
the PWFA pursuant to 1977A of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, 42
U.S.C. 1981a.
1636.5(f)(1) and (2) Prohibition Against
Retaliation
The Commission received some
comments regarding the prohibitions on
retaliation and coercion.
First, one comment questioned
whether the regulation’s prohibition of
an employer seeking documentation
when it is not reasonable to do so would
create a new standard for retaliation that
does not require intent; it does not. To
minimize any misunderstanding and
provide a fuller explanation of when
going beyond the regulatory limits on
seeking supporting documentation set
out in § 1636.3(l) may violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)), the
Commission removed proposed rule
§ 1636.5(f)(1)(iv) and (v) and proposed
rule § 1636.5(f)(2)(iv) and (v) and,
instead, explained the interaction
between the limitations on supporting
documentation and the PWFA’s
retaliation provision in detail in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f) Prohibition Against
Retaliation.
Second, as part of these changes, the
Commission has created a new section
in the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f) entitled Possible Violations of
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) Based
on Seeking Supporting Documentation
During the Reasonable Accommodation
Process and Disclosure of Medical
Information and has moved the
explanation of how seeking supporting
documentation or disclosing medical
information may violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) to this section. The
Commission also has added an
additional example regarding the
unauthorized disclosure of medical
information to the examples of
200 88 FR 54742.

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00047

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29141

retaliation in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.5(f) Prohibition Against
Retaliation.
Third, the Commission removed
language that a request for a reasonable
accommodation constitutes ‘‘protected
activity’’ in the coercion section of the
regulation, at proposed rule
§ 1636.5(f)(2)(ii), because ‘‘protected
activity’’ is not a phrase used in the
analysis of coercion claims.
The Commission received several
comments requesting additional
examples involving the prohibition on
retaliation. The Commission agrees that
more examples could be helpful and has
included a few more in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.5(f)
Prohibition Against Retaliation,
including some related to requests for
supporting documentation. Other
comments suggested edits to certain
examples in the proposal, and the
Commission incorporated some of those
modifications. For example, in addition
to adding descriptive titles to the
examples in this section, the
Commission has added facts to certain
examples to strengthen the connection
between the covered entity’s actions and
the protected activity. The Commission
added explanations to clarify how
certain actions that may violate this
provision of the PWFA, also may violate
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (because these
actions may make the accommodation
ineffective) and 2000gg–1(5)
(prohibiting adverse actions), rather
than merely including the relevant
statutory citation.
The Commission also has included in
the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f) Prohibition Against Retaliation
additional information about retaliation
and coercion from its Enforcement
Guidance on Retaliation and Related
Issues so that this information is more
easily accessible.
One comment requested that
information regarding neutral work
rules, such as fixed leave policies, be
moved from the Interpretive Guidance
to the regulation. The Commission
declines to make this change but has
added examples regarding this type of
policy to the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.5(f) Prohibition Against
Retaliation.
The Commission received a few
comments expressing concern that
mission statements, statements
regarding religious beliefs of an
employer, or statements in employee
handbooks would be seen as violating
§ 1636.5(f)(2). Whether a statement
violates 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(2) will
depend on the language of the
statement, but, as the examples
provided in the NPRM and the final rule

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29142

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

for this provision show, the making of
general statements regarding an
employer’s mission or religious beliefs
is not the type of conduct that the
Commission previously has determined
would be prohibited by this
provision.201
Additionally, the Commission made
minor changes to § 1636.5(f). The
proposed rule at § 1636.5(f)(1) referred
to ‘‘employee, applicant, or former
employee’’ and ‘‘individual’’ to refer to
this group; the final rule uses only
‘‘employee’’ as that is the language in
the statute. The removal of the words
‘‘applicant’’ and ‘‘former employee’’ and
‘‘individual’’ is a minor change. The
statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) provides
that ‘‘employee’’ in the statute includes
‘‘applicant’’; the same is true for the
regulation and the Interpretive
Guidance. The statute at 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(3)(A) refers to the Title VII
definition of employee; that definition
includes former employees when
relevant.202 Finally, the proposed rule
in § 1636.5(f)(2) used the word
‘‘because’’; this has been changed to ‘‘on
account of’’ to match the statute.
1636.5(g) Limitation on Monetary
Damages
Several comments recommended that
the Commission clarify that the good
faith defense to money damages is
limited to damages for a covered entity’s
failure to make reasonable
accommodations under 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)) only. The
Commission agrees that this
clarification would be helpful and has
added it to the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.5(g) Limitation on
Monetary Damages.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.6 Waiver of State Immunity
A few comments recommended that
the Commission either exempt State
employers from the PWFA or create
exceptions in the PWFA for certain
State laws to provide States greater
protection from the PWFA. The
Commission declines to make these
changes. The statute at 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–4 provides that ‘‘A State shall
not be immune under the 11th
Amendment to the Constitution from an
action in a Federal or State court of
competent jurisdiction for a violation of
201 Certain types of employer statements or
policies, of course, may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
2(f). Cf. EEOC v. Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., No.
01–CIV–8421–RMBRLE, 2002 WL 31108179, at *2
(S.D.N.Y. Sept. 20, 2002) (finding that the portion
of the employer’s code of conduct that required
employees to notify the employer before contacting
a governmental or regulatory body violated public
policy because it chilled employee communications
with the EEOC).
202 See supra note 6.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

[the PWFA].’’ A decision by the
Commission to modify this waiver
would be in violation of the statute.203
1636.7

Relationship to Other Laws

1636.7(a)(1) Relationship to Other Laws
in General
Many comments addressed the PWFA
and its relationship to other laws, some
suggesting the inclusion of additional
laws in the discussion in the
Interpretive Guidance and others asking
whether accommodations under the
PWFA would lead to violations of other
laws. The Commission has maintained
the rule language from the NPRM and
has made changes and additions to the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) Relationship to Other Laws
in General in response to the comments.
These changes and the Commission’s
responses to specific comments are
discussed below.
Some comments recommended that
collective bargaining agreements (CBAs)
and workplace safety laws be added to
the list of laws in § 1636.7(a)(1), to
clarify that the PWFA does not
invalidate CBAs or workplace safety
laws that provide greater or equal
protection for individuals affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. The Commission
agrees with this suggestion and has
added language to this effect in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) Relationship to Other Laws
in General.
Other comments asked how the
PWFA will interact with the FMLA. The
FMLA provides job-protected unpaid
leave for serious health conditions,
including pregnancy. As set out in
2000gg–5(a)(1), nothing in the PWFA
invalidates or limits the powers,
remedies, and procedures under other
Federal laws that provide greater or
equal protection for individuals affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. Thus, the PWFA
does not invalidate or limit the rights of
employees covered by the FMLA or
State versions of it. The Department of
Labor’s regulations set out how the
FMLA interacts with other civil rights
203 An amendment was introduced and defeated
in the Senate that would have eliminated the
PWFA’s waiver of State immunity. See Roll Call
415, Bill Number: H.R. 2617, U.S. Senate (Dec. 22,
2022), https://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_
call_votes/vote1172/vote_117_2_00415.htm (setting
out the Senate vote tally for S. Amend. 6569 to S.
Amend. 6558 to S. Amend. 6552 to H.R. 2617,
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023) (40 yeas,
57 nays, 3 not voting); 168 Cong. Rec. S10,070
(daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (setting out the Senate vote
tally for S. Amend. 6569 to the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act).

PO 00000

Frm 00048

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

laws, including leave as a reasonable
accommodation under the ADA.204
Some comments asked the
Commission whether breaks under the
PWFA must be paid, either under the
PUMP Act or the FLSA.205 As the
Commission explained in the discussion
of reasonable accommodations in the
NPRM, ‘‘Breaks may be paid or unpaid
depending on the employer’s normal
policies and other applicable laws.
Breaks may exceed the number that an
employer normally provides because
reasonable accommodations may
require an employer to alter its policies,
barring undue hardship.’’ 206
One comment suggested that the
Commission create a safe harbor
provision for covered entities similar to
one created by the Department of Labor
for wage deductions. The PWFA does
not provide the Commission with this
authority.
The Commission received some
comments regarding the requirements
for Federal agencies under Executive
Order 13164. The Commission will
respond to those through its work with
Federal agencies.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Relationship With Title
VII
The Commission did not receive
many comments regarding the
discussion in the proposed appendix
concerning § 1636.7(a)(1), about the
relationship between the PWFA and
Title VII. The Commission has
maintained the discussion from the
proposed appendix with some edits for
style and clarity and added it in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) under The PWFA and Title
VII.
A few comments questioned whether
providing an accommodation under the
PWFA would violate Title VII’s
prohibition on sex discrimination. This
issue is discussed in more detail
above.207 The employees covered by the
204 See 29 CFR 825.702.
205 See U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Field Assistance
Bulletin No. 2023–02: Enforcement of Protections
for Employees to Pump Breast Milk at Work (May
17, 2023), https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/
WHD/fab/2023-2.pdf (discussing compensability of
breaks under the FLSA).
206 88 FR 54730 n.102, 54781 n.60.
207 See supra, Response to Comments Regarding
the Commission’s Proposed Definition of
‘‘Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related Medical
Conditions’’ as Reflected in Statutory Text; see, e.g.,
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(C)(3); Cal. Fed.
Sav. & Loan Ass’n, 479 U.S. at 290 (concluding that
the State could require employers to provide up to
four months of medical leave to pregnant women
where ‘‘[t]he statute is narrowly drawn to cover
only the period of actual physical disability on
account of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

PWFA also are covered by Title VII.
Title VII, as amended by the PDA,
provides for accommodations for
employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
under certain circumstances, even when
all employees do not receive the same
accommodations.208 Providing these
accommodations under Title VII does
not violate Title VII even if they are not
provided to all employees; the same is
true under the PWFA.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Relationship With the
ADA
The Commission received some
comments with questions regarding the
interaction between the ADA and the
PWFA. One comment recommended
that the Commission state that if an
employee might be covered by both the
ADA and the PWFA, an employer
should consider the ADA first. The
Commission disagrees that it should
make this determination or that
employers should necessarily consider
the ADA first. While it will depend on
the specific facts of the situation,
generally, when an employee might be
covered by both the ADA and the
PWFA, an employer’s analysis should
begin with the PWFA because the
definition of ‘‘known limitation’’ means
that under the PWFA an employer is
required to provide reasonable
accommodations in situations in which
it may not be required to do so under
the ADA. This is consistent with 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(1), which states that
when multiple State or Federal laws
provide protection, a covered entity
should consider all applicable laws and
follow the principles that provide the
broadest protections and impose the
smallest burden on the employee. This
has been added in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.7(a)(1) under
The PWFA and the ADA.
A few comments questioned whether
providing an accommodation under the
PWFA would result in violations of the
ADA if doing so made granting the
accommodation to an individual
covered by the ADA an undue hardship
or because the PWFA provides for
accommodations in situations that may
not be covered by other laws. As an
initial matter, the Commission disagrees
that accommodations should be viewed
as a zero-sum game. Under both the
conditions.’’); Johnson, 431 F.3d at 328 (‘‘If the
leave given to biological mothers is granted due to
the physical trauma they sustain giving birth, then
it is conferred for a valid reason wholly separate
from gender.’’).
208 See, e.g., Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(C)(3); Young,
595 U.S. 206.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

ADA and the PWFA, an individualized
assessment occurs; there is no guarantee
that an accommodation for one
employee will result in another
employee receiving or not receiving one.
As data from the Job Accommodation
Network show, most accommodations
under the ADA are no-cost or lowcost.209 If there is truly a situation
where there are limits—for example, if
there are only 10 parking spaces—the
employer can provide the
accommodation until the limit is
reached on a first-come, first-served or
another neutral basis. Further, the fact
that an employee is able to receive an
accommodation under the PWFA that
an employee cannot receive under the
ADA does not violate the ADA because
in that case, the employer is not refusing
the accommodation to the person
because of their disability. Rather, the
employer is complying with its
obligations under a different Federal
law.
The Commission has provided
additional information and examples
regarding the interaction between the
PWFA and the ADA, in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.7(a)(1) under
The PWFA and the ADA, including
examples of that relationship.
Within section 1636.7(a)(1) of the
Interpretive Guidance, as set out below,
the Commission has included
information about two critical ADA
protections that apply to employees
covered by the PWFA: the rules that
limit covered entities from making
disability-related inquiries and
requiring medical exams and the rules
protecting confidential medical
information.210 The information
explains how the ADA’s provisions that
restrict the ability of employers to make
disability-related inquiries interact with
the PWFA and how the ADA’s rules
regarding confidential medical
information and restrictions on sharing
confidential medical information apply
to medical information collected under
the PWFA.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Confidentiality of
Medical Information
As explained in the NPRM, the PWFA
does not include a provision specifically
requiring covered entities to maintain
the confidentiality of medical
information obtained in support of
accommodation requests under the
PWFA. However, applicants,
209 Job Accommodation Network, Costs and
Benefits of Accommodation (May 4, 2023)
[hereinafter Costs and Benefits of Accommodation],
https://askjan.org/topics/costs.cfm.
210 The ADA confidentiality rule was included in
the NPRM in § 1636.3(l)(4).

PO 00000

Frm 00049

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29143

employees, and former employees
covered by the PWFA also are covered
by the ADA.211 Under the ADA, covered
entities are required to keep medical
information of all applicants,
employees, and former employees
(whether or not those individuals have
disabilities) confidential, with limited
exceptions.212 The Commission has long
held that these ADA rules on
confidentiality apply to all medical
information, whether obtained through
the ADA process or otherwise; thus this
protection applies to medical
information obtained under the PWFA,
including medical information
voluntarily provided and medical
information provided as part of the
reasonable accommodation process.213
Moreover, as a practical matter, in many
circumstances under the PWFA the
medical information obtained by an
employer may involve a condition that
could be a disability; rather than an
employer attempting to parse out
whether to keep certain information
confidential or not, all medical
information should be kept
confidential.214 Additionally, an
employer’s disclosure of medical
information obtained through the
PWFA’s reasonable accommodation
process beyond what is permitted under
the ADA may violate the PWFA’s
prohibition on retaliation.
Many comments expressed support
for the proposed rule’s position that the
ADA rules regarding medical
confidentiality apply to medical
information obtained by covered entities
under the PWFA. Some of these
211 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(4), (5) (ADA); 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(2)(B)(i), (3) (PWFA).
212 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR
1630.14(b)(1), (c)(1), (d)(4); Enforcement Guidance
on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra note 170, at
text accompanying nn.9–10 (‘‘The ADA requires
employers to treat any medical information
obtained from a disability-related inquiry or
medical examination . . . as well as any medical
information voluntarily disclosed by an employee,
as a confidential medical record. Employers may
share such information only in limited
circumstances with supervisors, managers, first aid
and safety personnel, and government officials
investigating compliance with the ADA.’’);
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment DisabilityRelated Questions, supra note 170, at text
accompanying n.6 (‘‘Medical information must be
kept confidential.’’).
213 See supra note 212. This policy also appears
in numerous EEOC technical assistance documents.
See, e.g., EEOC, Visual Disabilities in the Workplace
and the Americans with Disabilities Act, text
preceding n.43 (2023), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/visual-disabilities-workplace-andamericans-disabilities-act#q8 (‘‘With limited
exceptions, an employer must keep confidential any
medical information it learns about an applicant or
employee.’’).
214 Requests for accommodation under the PWFA
also may overlap with FMLA issues, and the FMLA
requires medical information to be kept confidential
as well. 29 CFR 825.500(g).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29144

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

comments urged the Commission to
specifically state in the final rule that
employers must store an employee’s
medical information separate from
personnel files and may not share it
with anyone other than the supervisor
implementing the accommodation.
Another comment suggested that the
final rule require employers to obtain an
employee’s written consent before
disclosing medical information received
under the PWFA in all circumstances.
Finally, some comments expressed
concern that State law enforcement
agencies may seek medical information
from covered entities regarding abortion
care and requested that the final rule
address this issue.
Because these confidentiality
provisions arise from a statute other
than the PWFA, and the violation of
these provisions, if one occurred, would
be of the ADA and not the PWFA, the
Commission has decided not to include
them in the regulation itself. Rather, this
information has been included in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.7(a)(1) under The PWFA and the
ADA and under Prohibition on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information.
In response to concerns about State
law enforcement agencies seeking
medical information related to abortion
care from PWFA-covered entities, the
Commission reminds employers that the
PWFA rules do not require employers to
seek supporting documentation
regarding requested reasonable
accommodations. The Commission
further reminds employers that when
the employer is permitted to seek
supporting documentation, it is limited
to the minimum that is sufficient to
confirm that the employee has a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
(a limitation), and describe the
adjustment or change at work that is
needed due to the limitation. Moreover,
as noted above, the ADA’s
confidentiality provisions and limits on
disclosure of medical information,
reiterated in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.7(a)(1) under The PWFA
and the ADA and under Prohibition on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information, apply to medical
information, including medical
information collected by the employer
under the PWFA, and thus the ADA
prohibits an employer from releasing
medical information except in five
specified circumstances.
Further, the Commission has
reorganized section 1636.5(f) in the

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Interpretive Guidance to highlight the
potential retaliation claims that could
arise regarding a covered entity seeking
or releasing supporting documentation
in situations where it would not be
permissible under the regulation. These
situations are now addressed in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f) under Possible Violations of 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) Based on
Seeking Supporting Documentation
During the Reasonable Accommodation
Process and Disclosure of Medical
Information.
1636.7(a)(2) Limitations Related to
Employer-Sponsored Health Plans
The Commission has not changed the
regulation for this provision.
1636.7(b) Rule of Construction
The Commission received thousands
of comments supporting the
Commission’s case-by-case approach to
considering employer defenses asserting
religious or constitutional
considerations. The Commission also
received tens of thousands of comments
asserting that giving certain
accommodations for pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions, such as providing leave for
abortion, infertility treatments, or
contraception, would infringe upon the
employer’s religious freedom and
therefore the employer should not be
required to provide such
accommodations. As explained below,
employers who assert that the provision
of such accommodations infringes upon
their religious exercise may assert
numerous statutory and constitutional
defenses. Because the facts of each case
will differ, the Commission will apply
these defenses using a case-by-case
analysis,215 using the framework
provided here and consistent with the
Commission’s approach to other statutes
that the Commission enforces.216
Section 107(b) of the PWFA, codified
at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b), provides a
‘‘rule of construction’’ stating that the
law is ‘‘subject to the applicability to
religious employment’’ set forth in
section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–1(a). The relevant
portion of section 702(a) provides that
‘‘[Title VII] shall not apply . . . to a
religious corporation, association,
215 See EEOC, Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, (12–I)(C) (2021) [hereinafter
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination],
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/section-12religious-discrimination.
216 In accordance with the Commission’s
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination
and the Commission’s long-standing polices, the
Commission will consider these defenses, when
asserted, in all parts of its investigation and
enforcement process.

PO 00000

Frm 00050

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

educational institution, or society with
respect to the employment of
individuals of a particular religion to
perform work connected with the
carrying on by such corporation,
association, educational institution, or
society of its activities.’’ 217 The final
rule reiterates this PWFA statutory
language and adds that nothing in the
regulation limits the rights of a covered
entity under the U.S. Constitution, and
nothing in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) or the
regulation limits the rights of an
employee under other civil rights
statutes.
Comments Regarding the Rule of
Construction
The Commission received comments
that expressed a broad range of
interpretations of the PWFA’s ‘‘rule of
construction’’ provision in section
107(b). Numerous comments agreed
with the Commission’s proposed rule to
consider the provision’s application to
employers on a case-by-case basis. Many
such comments reasoned that the
provision should be interpreted
consistent with section 702(a) of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 to avoid
confusion regarding its application,
especially because the same facts may
underlie Title VII and PWFA claims.
Those comments further observed that
section 702(a) strikes the correct balance
between the rights of employees and the
rights of employers. Other comments
focused on one or more of three of
section 107(b)’s components: (1) which
entities qualify under the provision; (2)
the scope of employment decisions to
which the provision applies; and (3) the
extent to which the provision limits the
application of the PWFA’s requirements
as to qualifying religious entities. The
Commission describes the range of
comments received as to each
component in turn.
Many comments asserted that section
107(b) covers religious entities only if
they are qualifying entities under
section 702(a). Conversely, many other
comments asserted that section 107(b)
should apply more broadly to entities
owned and operated by religious
employers. A few such comments stated
that the provision should assess
whether entities qualify under section
702(a) using the definition of a
‘‘religious’’ organization articulated in a
2017 Memorandum issued by the U.S.
Attorney General.218 Other comments
217 42 U.S.C. 2000e–1(a).
218 Memorandum from the Attorney General to
All Executive Departments and Agencies, Federal
Law Protections for Religious Liberty (Oct. 6, 2017),
82 FR 49668, 49670, 49677 (Oct. 26, 2017)
[hereinafter Attorney General Religious Liberty

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
said that the provision should be
redefined to include employers that
object to accommodations on
conscience, moral, ethical, scientific,
health or medical, or any other secular
grounds.
Comments varied regarding their view
of the scope of employment decisions to
which section 107(b) applies. Some
comments asserted that section 107(b)
applies only to hiring and firing
coreligionists, and other comments
asserted that it applies only to providing
PWFA accommodations. By contrast,
some comments asserted that the
provision broadly covers all aspects of
the employment relationship.
Furthermore, comments varied
regarding the extent to which section
107(b) limits the application of the
PWFA’s requirements as to qualifying
religious entities. Some comments
stated that the provision allows
qualifying entities to prefer
coreligionists only in providing
accommodation but does not otherwise
exempt qualifying religious
organizations from providing
accommodations or permit them not to
provide accommodations based on
religious beliefs. Such comments noted
that Congress demonstrated its intent
not to broadly exempt religious
employers from PWFA compliance
when, prior to the law’s passage, it
rejected an amendment that would have
done so.219 A few such comments
maintained that an overly broad
religious exemption would permit
employers to impede employees’
autonomy over decision-making
regarding pregnancy, freedom of
religion, and freedom from the religious
beliefs of others. Further, some
comments asserted that the provision,
like section 702(a), does not allow a
qualifying entity to discriminate on
other protected bases, such as sex. Some
comments stated that, in their view,
when an employer is a qualifying entity
under section 702(a), the employer is
exempt from all of Title VII’s
requirements, and the same rule should
apply to the PWFA.
Other comments argued that section
107(b) exempts religious organizations
more broadly than section 702(a). Some
of these comments stated that limiting
the exemption only to allow qualifying
organizations to prefer coreligionists is
at odds with Title VII’s text and Bostock
v. Clayton County; 220 that this
reasoning does not follow given that the
Memorandum], https://www.justice.gov/opa/pressrelease/file/1001891/download.
219 See 168 Cong. Rec. S10,069–70 (daily ed. Dec.
22, 2022) (S. Amend. 6577).
220 590 U.S. 644, 682 (2020) (describing section
702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

PWFA does not prohibit religious
discrimination; that it ignores the
Supreme Court’s expressed concerns
about such an interpretation; and that it
ignores the PWFA’s legislative history
indicating that Members of Congress
were concerned about religious
organizations’ rights. Such comments
therefore concluded that a qualifying
organization should be able both to
prefer coreligionists and to abstain from
making an accommodation that would
violate the organization’s religion under
section 107(b).
Comments urging the Commission to
interpret section 107(b) more broadly
than section 702(a) recommended that
the provision be interpreted consistent
with the religious entities provision in
Title I of the ADA; 221 those comments
asserted that an employer should be
permitted to require conformity to its
religious tenets but acknowledged that
the ADA provision does not allow
employers to discriminate on other
grounds.
The Commission also received
comments that either directly or
indirectly responded to five directed
questions about how the rule of
construction would apply in concrete
factual scenarios. These comments
offered a few fact patterns and
expressed concerns that employers may
be required to provide leave for medical
procedures to which they have religious
objections, and that employers may be
liable under the PWFA’s retaliation and
coercion provisions for objecting to
medical procedures for religious
reasons. Comments expressed concern
that employers would violate the law’s
coercion provision if they informed
their employees of their religious
objections to certain medical
procedures, or that they would violate
the law’s retaliation provision if they
terminated the employment of an
employee who requested or received an
accommodation for such a medical
procedure.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Rule of Construction
The Commission will interpret the
applicability of the PWFA’s rule of
construction provision on a case-by-case
basis as it does with section 702(a) of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The
Commission’s decision is based on
several considerations. First, section
107(b) of the PWFA expressly states that
the PWFA is ‘‘subject to the
applicability to religious employment’’
set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–
1(a). Courts and the Commission always
221 See 42 U.S.C. 12113(d).

PO 00000

Frm 00051

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29145

have considered defenses raised under
section 702(a) on a case-by-case basis.222
Second, comments suggesting a
different approach provided conflicting
recommendations and few concrete
factual scenarios as to how the
provision would apply under these
different rules, thereby creating
ambiguity and, as detailed below, failing
to provide sufficient justification for
deviating from the established case-bycase approach. Third, this case-by-case
approach will enable employers,
employees, the Commission, and courts
to consider the circumstances of each
case to the fullest extent under both
Title VII—should accommodation
claims for pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions be raised
under that statute—and the PWFA.223
The Commission declines to adopt the
religious entities provision set forth in
Title I of the ADA because the ADA’s
provision contains an additional clause
not found in section 702(a) of the Civil
Rights Act, and Congress explicitly
referenced section 702(a)—not the ADA
religious entities provision—in enacting
the PWFA. As stated above, the
Commission must rely on the text of the
law that Congress enacted.
In support of the idea that the
Commission should adopt a broader
interpretation of section 107(b) than
section 702(a), many comments cited to
the legislative history of the PWFA.
Although the Commission’s
interpretation is driven by the statute’s
text,224 given the many comments that
cited to the legislative history and the
comments submitted by legislators, the
Commission reviews the legislative
222 See, e.g., Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at (12–I)(C)(1)
(stating that whether an organization is covered by
section 702 ‘‘depend[s] on the facts’’; ‘‘Where the
religious organization exemption is asserted by a
respondent employer, the Commission will
consider the facts on a case-by-case basis; no one
factor is dispositive in determining if a covered
entity is a religious organization under Title VII’s
exemption.’’); id. at n.60 (discussing court decisions
when a defendant has asserted section 702(a) as a
defense); Newsome v. EEOC, 301 F.3d 227, 229–30
(5th Cir. 2002) (per curiam) (addressing a case in
which EEOC dismissed a charge where the
employer offered evidence that it fell under the
religious organization exception).
223 For example, an employee can bring a failure
to accommodate claim under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1);
the same facts could be the subject of a
discrimination claim under Title VII. See generally
Young, 575 U.S. 206 (concerning the Title VII claim
of a pregnant employee who was denied a light
duty position). Likewise, depending on the facts, an
employee who was terminated after requesting or
using a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA could have a claim under both the PWFA
(42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5), 2000gg–2(f)) and Title VII
for pregnancy discrimination or retaliation.
224 See supra note 67.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29146

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

history of section 107(b) and responds
to these comments.
The PWFA, as it passed the U.S.
House of Representatives, did not
include the language now contained in
section 107(b). The House also had
voted against including similar language
in section 107(b) in the definition of
‘‘employer.’’ 225 In the U.S. Senate, the
language now contained in section
107(b) was first offered as an
amendment by one of the bill’s
principal sponsors, Senator William
Cassidy.226 Senator James Lankford then
offered a different amendment that
would have provided even broader
protection for religious organizations
using language that differed from both
the ultimately enacted language of
section 107(b) and Title VII’s section
702(a).227 Senator Cassidy spoke against
that broader amendment, stating that
language referring to section 702(a)
would be broad enough—he noted the
initial section 107(b) language ‘‘was
drafted by House Republican Virginia
Foxx. . . . [and] addresses the issue,’’
and asserted that Senator Lankford’s
amendment ‘‘would increase the
likelihood of changing previous [Title
VII] jurisprudence.’’ 228 Ultimately, the
section 107(b) language offered by
Senator Cassidy and adopted in the final
bill was added to a rule of construction,
rather than to the definition of
‘‘employer.’’ 229 Prior to the House vote
on the final omnibus bill,
Representative Jerrold Nadler, the
principal sponsor of the PWFA in the
House, and Representative Robert Scott,
the Chair of the House committee that
had jurisdiction over the PWFA, issued
statements regarding the interpretation
of section 107(b); both statements
interpreted the provision’s protections
differently than Senator Cassidy had
interpreted them.230
The Commission also reviewed the
post-enactment statements of
legislators.231 After enactment, and
during this proposed rule’s public
comment period, Senator Lankford
submitted a comment that included a
legal analysis of why he believed the
language in section 702(a) applied more

broadly than hiring and firing.232
Senator Patricia Murray and Senator
Robert Casey both submitted comments
that agreed with the Commission’s
proposed case-by-case approach.233
Representatives Nadler and Scott also
submitted comments; Representative
Nadler’s comment endorsed the
Commission’s proposed case-by-case
approach and restated the views he had
expressed earlier about section 107(b)—
namely, that section 107(b) allows
religious employers to prefer people
who practice their religion in hiring and
firing, and in making comparable
pregnancy accommodations, but it does
not otherwise exempt employers from
their obligations under the PWFA to
provide reasonable accommodations
that do not pose an undue hardship; 234
Representative Scott also endorsed the
case-by-case approach.235
Taken together, the statements prior
to the enactment of the PWFA show that
some Members of Congress disagreed
about the extent of the protection they
were conferring on religious
organizations. This does not contradict
the Commission’s decision to apply
section 107(b) on a case-by-case basis; in
fact, a case-by-case approach will allow
employers, employees, the Commission,
and courts to evaluate in concrete
situations the way in which section
107(b) should apply.
The Commission has made minor
changes to the regulation to clarify the
rights of covered entities and employees
by providing parallel language in each
subsection of § 1636.7(b). Specifically,
§ 1636.7(b)(1) previously stated:
‘‘Nothing in this provision limits the
rights under the U.S. Constitution of a
covered entity’’; in the final regulation,
it states: ‘‘Nothing in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
5(b) or this part should be interpreted to
limit a covered entity’s rights under the
U.S. Constitution.’’ This language now
parallels the language in § 1636.7(b)(2)
regarding employees’ rights.
The Commission’s Interpretation of
Section 107(b) of the PWFA Applied
Under the Commission’s
interpretation of section 107(b) of the
PWFA, analogous to the Commission’s

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

225 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 11.
226 See 168 Cong. Rec. S10,063, 10,070–71 (daily
ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (S. Amend. 6558).
227 See 168 Cong. Rec. S10,069–70 (daily ed. Dec.
22, 2022) (statement of Sen. James Lankford on S.
Amend. 6577).
228 Id. (statement of Sen. William (Bill) Cassidy).
229 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b).
230 See 168 Cong. Rec. H10,527–28 (daily ed. Dec.
23, 2022) (statement of Rep. Jerrold (Jerry) Nadler);
168 Cong. Rec. E1361–62 (daily ed. Dec. 27, 2022)
(statement of Rep. Robert C. (Bobby) Scott).
231 The post-enactment statements of legislators
reflect the personal views of the legislators, not the
legislative history of the bill. See supra note 92.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

232 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98436, Sen.
James Lankford, 19 U.S. Senators, and 41 Members
of Congress (Oct. 10, 2023).
233 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98257, Sen.
Patricia (Patty) Murray and 24 U.S. Senators (Oct.
10, 2023); Comment EEOC 2023–0004–98384, Sen.
Robert P. (Bob) Casey, Jr. (Oct. 10, 2023).
234 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98470, Rep.
Jerrold (Jerry) Nadler and 82 Members of Congress
(Oct. 10, 2023).
235 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98339, Rep.
Robert C. (Bobby) Scott, Ranking Member of the
House Committee on Education and the Workforce
(Oct. 10, 2023).

PO 00000

Frm 00052

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

interpretation of section 702(a) of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, an employer
meets the definition of a ‘‘religious
corporation, association, educational
institution, or society’’ 236 if its
‘‘purpose and character are primarily
religious.’’ 237 When a respondent
employer asserts that it qualifies as a
religious organization under section
107(b), the Commission will use the
same factors it uses to make the
determination under section 702(a).
These factors include, but are not
limited to: (1) whether the entity
operates for a profit; (2) whether it
produces a secular product; (3) whether
the entity’s articles of incorporation or
other pertinent documents state a
religious purpose; (4) whether it is
owned, affiliated with, or financially
supported by a formally religious entity
such as a church or synagogue; (5)
whether a formally religious entity
participates in the management, for
instance by having representatives on
the board of trustees; (6) whether the
entity holds itself out to the public as
secular or sectarian; (7) whether the
entity regularly includes prayer or other
forms of worship in its activities; (8)
whether it includes religious instruction
in its curriculum, to the extent it is an
educational institution; and (9) whether
its membership is made up by
coreligionists.238 No one factor is
dispositive in making this
determination.
Under the Commission’s
interpretation of section 107(b), the
PWFA does not fully exempt qualifying
religious organizations from making
reasonable accommodations. This is
analogous to section 702(a), which
likewise does not operate as a total
exemption from Title VII’s
requirements.
Under section 702(a), for example,
qualifying religious organizations are
exempt from Title VII’s prohibition
against discrimination on the basis of
religion, but, as U.S. courts of appeals
have recognized, qualifying religious
organizations are still subject to the
law’s prohibitions against
discrimination on the basis of race,
color, sex, and national origin, and they
236 See 42 U.S.C. 2000e–1(a).
237 See Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at (12–I)(C)(1) &
n.58. Because the Commission has already defined
the type of employer that is covered by section
702(a), and the PWFA references section 702(a), the
Commission is maintaining this definition rather
than adopting the language in the Attorney General
Religious Liberty Memorandum, supra note 218,
which does not have the force of law.
238 LeBoon v. Lancaster Jewish Cmty. Ctr. Ass’n,
503 F.3d 217, 226 (3d Cir. 2007); Compliance
Manual on Religious Discrimination, supra note
215, at (12–I)(C)(1).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

may not engage in related retaliation.239
If a qualifying religious organization
asserts as a defense to a claim under the
PWFA that it took the challenged action
on the basis of religion and that section
107(b) should apply, the merits of any
such asserted defense will therefore be
determined on a case-by-case basis
consistent with the facts presented and
applicable law.
In response to comments that
discussed potential religious defenses to
the PWFA’s requirements, the
Commission notes that its statutory
authority to investigate alleged unlawful
employment practices under the statutes
it enforces, including the PWFA, starts
only after an aggrieved individual (or a
Commissioner) files a charge of
discrimination against a specific
covered entity.240 The PWFA does not
provide a mechanism for the
Commission to provide legally binding
responses to employer inquiries about
the potential applicability of religious or
other defenses before this point.
Moreover, the Commission does not
believe it is capable of providing such
239 See Kennedy v. St. Joseph’s Ministries, Inc.,
657 F.3d 189, 192 (4th Cir. 2011) (observing that the
exemption ‘‘does not exempt religious organizations
from Title VII’s provisions barring discrimination
on the basis of race, gender, or national origin’’);
Boyd v. Harding Acad. of Memphis, Inc., 88 F.3d
410, 413 (6th Cir. 1996) (stating that the exemption
‘‘does not . . . exempt religious educational
institutions with respect to all discrimination’’);
DeMarco v. Holy Cross High Sch., 4 F.3d 166, 173
(2d Cir. 1993) (‘‘[R]eligious institutions that
otherwise qualify as ‘employer[s]’ are subject to
Title VII provisions relating to discrimination based
on race, gender and national origin.’’); Rayburn v.
Gen. Conf. of Seventh-Day Adventists, 772 F.2d
1164, 1166 (4th Cir. 1985) (‘‘While the language of
§ 702 makes clear that religious institutions may
base relevant hiring decisions upon religious
preferences, Title VII does not confer upon religious
organizations a license to make those same
decisions on the basis of race, sex, or national
origin. . . .’’) (citations omitted); cf. Garcia v.
Salvation Army, 918 F.3d 997, 1004–05, 1011 (9th
Cir. 2019) (holding that Title VII retaliation and
hostile work environment claims related to
religious discrimination were barred by the
religious organization exception but adjudicating
the disability discrimination claim on the merits).
The Commission recognizes that a few judges have
recently suggested otherwise. See Starkey v. Roman
Catholic Archdiocese of Indianapolis, Inc., 41 F.4th
931, 946 (7th Cir. 2022) (Easterbrook, J.,
concurring); Bear Creek Bible Church v. EEOC, 571
F. Supp. 3d 571, 590–91 (N.D. Tex. 2021). However,
this is not a common understanding of Title VII’s
religious exemption. See 88 FR 12852–54.
Typically, courts have accepted an employer’s
defense under this provision with regard to hiring
or firing claims, rather than terms or conditions of
employment. Compare EEOC v. Miss. Coll., 626
F.2d 477, 485–86 (5th Cir. 1980) (holding that the
college may prefer a Baptist to a non-Baptist in
hiring), with EEOC v. Fremont Christian Sch., 781
F.2d 1362, 1365–66 (9th Cir. 1986) (holding that the
section 702(a) exemption did not apply where a
religious school provided ‘‘head of household’’
health insurance benefits only to single persons and
married men).
240 See 42 U.S.C. 2000e–5(b).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

responses in the abstract, in the absence
of a concrete factual context presented
by a specific charge of discrimination.
In the event that a charge alleging one
or more violations of the PWFA 241 is
filed against a particular employer, the
employer can raise religious and other
defenses at any time during the
Commission’s administrative
process 242—from as early as when the
employer first receives a Notice of
Charge of Discrimination, pursuant to
42 U.S.C. 2000e–5(b), or even after the
EEOC has found reasonable cause and
attempted to resolve the matter through
conciliation, and is considering
potential litigation.243 Although
241 The procedures described in this paragraph
apply to charges filed under any of the statutes that
the Commission enforces.
242 The Commission’s administrative process
typically begins when an individual, referred to as
the charging party, files a charge of employment
discrimination with the Commission. See 42 U.S.C.
2000e–5(b). The statute requires that within 10 days
of the date a charge is filed, the Commission inform
the employer, also referred to as the respondent,
that a charge has been filed, see id., and, if
appropriate, the parties are invited to participate in
the Commission’s robust voluntary mediation
program. This is an opportunity for the parties to
resolve the charge early and before the Commission
completes its investigation.
If there is no mediated resolution of the charge,
the Commission requests a position statement from
the employer and proceeds with the investigation.
An employer may raise any applicable defenses in
the position statement, including religious defenses.
If the Commission determines that further
investigation is not warranted, the agency will
dismiss the charge and the employee may file suit
in Federal court.
Otherwise, the Commission may request
additional information from the employer during
the investigation. At any point during the
investigation, the employer may assert any religious
defenses, including under section 107(b). The
Commission generally relies on voluntary
compliance with its investigation requests, although
it does have statutory authority to examine or copy
evidence relevant to its investigation. 42 U.S.C.
2000e–8(a); 42 U.S.C. 2000e–9; 29 U.S.C. 161(1)–(2).
Based on the evidence obtained during its
investigation, the Commission makes a
determination. The agency may dismiss the charge
and the employee may file suit in Federal court.
If, however, the Commission makes a
determination that there is ‘‘reasonable cause’’ to
believe discrimination occurred, it endeavors to
resolve the charge through conciliation, which is an
informal process through which the Commission
works with the parties in an attempt to develop an
appropriate remedy for the discrimination and
reach a final resolution administratively. See 42
U.S.C. 2000e–5(b). Participation in conciliation is
voluntary, and it is another step in the statutorilyrequired administrative procedure where an
employer may raise section 107(b) defenses. A
finding of ‘‘reasonable cause’’ does not lead to any
fines or penalties for the employer. If conciliation
is not successful, the Commission either files a
lawsuit or issues the charging party a notice of
conciliation failure and closes the charge; under the
Commission’s current procedure, the notice of
conciliation failure includes a notice informing the
employee of their right to file suit in Federal court.
See generally 29 CFR part 1601 (Procedural
Regulations).
243 Indeed, the Commission will consider
religious defenses even when they are raised for the

PO 00000

Frm 00053

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29147

defenses can be asserted at any time
during the EEOC’s administrative
process, the Commission encourages
employers to raise defenses as early as
possible after receiving a notice of a
charge of discrimination. This will
allow the EEOC to promptly consider
asserted defense(s) that, if applicable,
would result in dismissal of the charge.
The Commission will ‘‘take great care’’
in evaluating the asserted religious or
other defense(s) based on the facts
presented and applicable law, regardless
of when in the administrative process it
is raised.244
To further assist employers with
potential religious defenses in the
context of individual charge
investigations, the Commission is
enhancing its administrative procedures
to provide additional information to
facilitate the submission of information
regarding potential religious
defenses.245 Specifically, the
Commission will revise materials
accompanying the Notice of Charge of
Discrimination letter and related web
pages to identify how employers can
raise defenses, including religious
defenses, in response to the charge.
These updates will be public and
viewable by any employer with
questions or concerns about how to
raise a defense, including a religious
defense, in the event that one of its
employees files a charge of
discrimination. In addition, as it is
currently the case, the Notice of Charge
will continue to direct employers to the
EEOC Respondent Portal, where the
employer can view and download the
underlying charge of discrimination and
submit documents to the EEOC
first time in the context of an EEOC enforcement
action in court. See, e.g., EEOC v. R.G. & G.R. Harris
Funeral Homes, Inc., 201 F. Supp. 3d 837, 846 (E.D.
Mich. 2016) (noting that the defendant raised its
RFRA defense for the first time in answer to the
EEOC’s amended complaint, which simply
corrected a typographical error in the spelling of the
aggrieved employee’s first name), rev’d and
remanded sub nom. EEOC v. R.G. &. G.R. Harris
Funeral Homes, Inc., 884 F.3d 560 (6th Cir. 2018),
aff’d sub nom. Bostock v. Clayton Cnty., Ga., 590
U.S. 644 (2020).
244 Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at (12–I)(C)(3)
(counseling EEOC investigators to ‘‘take great care’’
in situations involving the First Amendment and
RFRA); see also Newsome, 301 F.3d at 229–30
(addressing a case in which the EEOC dismissed a
charge where the employer offered evidence that it
fell under the religious organization exception).
245 These enhancements will apply to charges
filed under any of the statutes that the EEOC
enforces. Covered entities will be able to learn
about the PWFA, this rule, and the enhancements
outlined in this section at EEOC public outreach
events and through the EEOC’s website and
publications. See, e.g., EEOC, Outreach, Education
& Technical Assistance, https://www.eeoc.gov/
outreach-education-technical-assistance (last
visited Mar. 23, 2024).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29148

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

electronically. The Commission will
update the Respondent Portal to
encourage an employer to raise in its
position statement (or as soon as
possible after a charge is filed) any
factual or legal defenses it believes
apply, including ones based on religion.
The Portal also will direct employers to
the Commission’s website, which
provides detailed instructions with
examples on what a position statement
should include, which will allow the
employer to easily inform the
Commission of a potential defense,
including a religious defense. The
Commission will update other resources
to provide additional, clear instructions
about how the employer should submit
factual or legal support for any asserted
defenses, including religious ones.
As appropriate, the Commission will
resolve the charge based on the
information submitted in support of
asserted defenses, including religious
defenses, in order to minimize the
burden on the employer and the
charging party. The Commission may
contact the employer and/or the
charging party if it needs additional
information to evaluate the applicability
of any asserted defenses. The employer
or charging party may also voluntarily
submit additional information regarding
the applicability of any asserted
defenses and may request that the EEOC
prioritize the consideration of a
particular defense that could be
dispositive and obviate the need to
investigate the merits of a charge. As
with the EEOC’s reasonable cause
determinations, the EEOC’s decision to
close or continue investigating a
particular charge is not entitled to
deference in any subsequent litigation,
where a religious or other defense will
receive de novo review if raised by the
employer.246 Thus, regardless of
whether the Commission agrees with
the employer’s asserted defenses, those
defenses are entitled to de novo review
by a court in any subsequent litigation.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Application of Section 107(b) of the
PWFA to Retaliation and Coercion
Claims
Some comments specifically raised
the application of section 107(b) of the
PWFA to claims regarding retaliation
and coercion. The Commission’s
application of section 107(b) in this
context will be informed by its
application of section 702(a) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 in analogous
circumstances.
246 Alexander v. Gardner-Denver Co., 415 U.S. 36,
60 (1974) (providing that private-sector employees
have a right to a trial de novo for consideration of
their Title VII claims).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

The Commission notes that the
operative language in the PWFA’s
retaliation provision is the same as the
language in Title VII’s retaliation
provision, and the Commission will
interpret it accordingly.247
The coercion provision in the PWFA,
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(2), is not in Title
VII, but similar language is in the ADA’s
interference provision, and the
Commission will interpret it
accordingly.248 As set out in the
Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f)(2) under Prohibition Against
Coercion, the purpose of this provision
is to ensure that employees are free to
avail themselves of the protections of
the statute. Thus, consistent with the
ADA regulation for the essentially
identical provision, the rule adds
‘‘harass’’ to the list of prohibitions; the
inclusion of the term ‘‘harass’’ in the
regulation is intended to characterize
the type of adverse treatment that may
in some circumstances violate the
interference provision.249 As with the
ADA, the provision does not apply to
any and all conduct or statements that
an individual finds intimidating; it
prohibits only conduct that is
reasonably likely to interfere with the
exercise or enjoyment of PWFA
rights.250 As the Commission stated in
the preamble in section 1636.5(f)
regarding the coercion provision, the
Commission received a few comments
expressing concern that mission
statements, statements regarding
religious beliefs of an employer, or
statements in employee handbooks
would be seen as violating
§ 1636.5(f)(2). Whether a statement
violates 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2
(§ 1636.5(f)(2)) will depend on the
language of the statement, but, as the
examples provided in the NPRM and in
the Interpretive Guidance in section
1636.5(f)(2) Prohibition Against
Coercion show, the making of general
statements regarding an employer’s
mission or religious beliefs is not the
type of conduct that the Commission
247 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1) (PWFA); 42 U.S.C.
2000e–3(a) (Title VII).
248 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(2) (PWFA); 42 U.S.C.
12203(b) (ADA).
249 See 29 CFR 1630.12(b); Enforcement Guidance
on Retaliation and Related Issues, at (III) (stating,
with regard to the ADA, that ‘‘[t]he statute,
regulations, and court decisions have not separately
defined the terms ‘coerce,’ ‘intimidate,’ ‘threaten,’
and ‘interfere.’ Rather, as a group, these terms have
been interpreted to include at least certain types of
actions which, whether or not they rise to the level
of unlawful retaliation, are nevertheless actionable
as interference.’’) (2016) [hereinafter Enforcement
Guidance on Retaliation], https://www.eeoc.gov/
laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-retaliationand-related-issues.
250 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 249, at (III).

PO 00000

Frm 00054

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

previously has determined would be
prohibited by this provision.
If a claim is raised regarding
retaliation or coercion against a
religious employer, the Commission
will apply the same type of case-by-case
analysis it applies to other PWFA and
Title VII claims.
Additional Potential Defenses to the
PWFA for Covered Entities
Religious Freedom Restoration Act
The Religious Freedom Restoration
Act (RFRA) provides that the
‘‘[g]overnment shall not substantially
burden a person’s exercise of religion
even if the burden results from a rule of
general applicability,’’ except when
application of the burden to the person
‘‘is in furtherance of a compelling
governmental interest’’ and ‘‘is the least
restrictive means of furthering that
compelling governmental interest.’’ 251
Nondiscrimination laws and policies
have been found to serve a compelling
governmental interest, including where
the Commission has sought to enforce
Title VII.252 As stated in the NPRM, the
Commission will carefully consider
these matters, analyzing RFRA defenses
to claims of discrimination on a case-bycase basis.253
251 42 U.S.C. 2000bb–1(a), (b). If an employer
raises RFRA as a defense to the Government’s
enforcement of a law and meets its burden of
showing that the law substantially burdens its
religious exercise, the burden then shifts to the
Government to show that the challenged law
furthers a compelling governmental interest and is
the least restrictive means of furthering that
compelling governmental interest, as applied to
‘‘the particular claimant whose sincere exercise of
religion is being substantially burdened.’’ See Holt
v. Hobbs, 574 U.S. 352, 362–63 (2015) (quoting
Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc., 573 U.S. 682,
726 (2014)) (internal citations and quotation marks
omitted).
252 See, e.g., Harris Funeral Homes, 884 F.3d at
581 (‘‘EEOC has established that it has a compelling
interest in ensuring the Funeral Home complies
with Title VII; and enforcement of Title VII is
necessarily the least restrictive way to achieve that
compelling interest.’’); Hsu v. Roslyn Union Free
Sch. Dist. No. 3, 876 F. Supp. 445, 463 (E.D.N.Y.
1995) (concluding that a school district’s policy was
justified by its ‘‘compelling interest in eliminating
and preventing discrimination’’), aff’d in part, rev’d
in part on other grounds, 85 F.3d 839 (2d Cir. 1996).
But cf. Braidwood Mgmt., Inc. v. EEOC, 70 F.4th
914, 939–40 (5th Cir. 2023) (‘‘Even if there is a
compelling interest as a categorical matter, there
may not be a compelling interest in prohibiting all
instances of discrimination. . . . [EEOC] does not
show a compelling interest in denying Braidwood,
individually, an exemption.’’).
253 Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at (12–I)(C)(3)
(counseling EEOC investigators to ‘‘take great care’’
in situations involving the First Amendment and
RFRA); see also Little Sisters of the Poor Saints
Peter & Paul Home v. Pennsylvania, 591 U.S. __,
140 S. Ct. 2367, 2383 (2020) (‘‘[T]he [government]
must accept the sincerely held complicity-based
objections of religious entities.’’).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Comments Related to RFRA
Some comments agreed with the
Commission that RFRA may be a
defense to PWFA claims brought by the
Commission. Some comments asserted
that being required to provide
accommodations, absent undue
hardship, for certain health care services
to which employers may object for
religious reasons—such as abortion,
IVF, surrogacy, contraception, and
sterilization—violates RFRA. These
comments argued that being required to
provide a workplace accommodation to
receive these services would
substantially burden some employers’
ability to exercise their religious beliefs.
The Commission received several
comments stating that the PWFA
proposed regulation would impose a
substantial burden on employers’
religious exercise and that the
Commission lacks a compelling
governmental interest in enforcing the
statute, as implemented by the
regulation. In support, comments
asserted that: in the Title VII context,
the Federal Government must
demonstrate a very specific compelling
interest when requiring a religious
organization to act contrary to its
understanding of sex; strict scrutiny
applies when there is a threat to
religious freedom by the Federal
Government; the Commission should
acknowledge that the PWFA regulation
would substantially burden employers’
religious exercise; the Commission
should offer its analysis of existing case
law and state whether it believes it
could ever have a compelling interest in
requiring an objecting religious
employer to violate its religious
convictions regarding abortion; the
Commission’s case-by-case view does
not comport with Title VII’s definition
of religion, which includes all aspects of
religious observance and practice as
well as belief; and the Commission does
not have a compelling interest in
denying an exception under the PWFA
to a religious employer because that
would force religious parties to violate
their sincerely held religious beliefs.
Many comments addressed the
application of RFRA in lawsuits that do
not involve the Government. These
comments asserted that: because the
Commission says RFRA may not be an
applicable defense in some cases and is
no defense at all to private suits,254 the
254 See, e.g., Listecki v. Off. Comm. of Unsecured
Creditors, 780 F.3d 731, 736–37 (7th Cir. 2015);
Gen. Conf. Corp. of Seventh-Day Adventists v.
McGill, 617 F.3d 402, 409–12 (6th Cir. 2010). The
Second Circuit has held otherwise in the ADEA
context, Hankins v. Lyght, 441 F.3d 96, 103–04 (2d
Cir. 2006) (holding that an employer could raise
RFRA as a defense to an employee’s Age

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Commission needs to clarify how its
RFRA process will operate; RFRA
should be available in all cases,
including all cases where the
Government substantially burdens
religious exercise through the
implementation of Federal law,
regardless of whether the Government is
a party to the lawsuit; if RFRA is not
available in cases in which the
Government is not a party, then the
Commission could decline to bring a
lawsuit where a religious employer
could have brought a successful RFRA
defense, and the employer would lose
its rights to religious exercise; and if a
RFRA defense only is available if the
Government is a party to the lawsuit,
the Commission should describe the
steps it will take to ensure it does not
intentionally avoid involving itself in
litigation with the intent of preventing
the employer from raising RFRA as a
defense.
The Commission also received
comments stating that the Commission
must conduct an individualized review
of any defense raised under RFRA and
ensure that there is a sufficiently strong
nexus between the asserted burden and
a religious exercise, the religious
exercise is based on sincerely held
religious beliefs, the burden is
substantial, and the requested religious
exception is tailored to address the
burden. Further, comments asserted that
the Commission must conduct an
Establishment Clause analysis of any
proposed exception.
Response to Comments Related to RFRA
As the Supreme Court has recognized,
RFRA requires a fact-sensitive, case-bycase analysis of burdens and
interests.255 The Commission takes the
protections of RFRA seriously and has
instructed its staff to use ‘‘great care in
situations involving both (a) the
statutory rights of employees to be free
from discrimination at work, and (b) the
Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) claim
because the ADEA is enforceable both by the EEOC
and private litigants), but the Second Circuit has
questioned the correctness of Hankins given the
text of RFRA, Rweyemamu v. Cote, 520 F.3d 198,
203 & n.2 (2d Cir. 2008).
255 See, e.g., Gonzales v. O Centro Espı́rita
Beneficente União do Vegetal, 546 U.S. 418, 430–
31 (2006) (observing that, when applying RFRA,
courts look ‘‘beyond broadly formulated interests
justifying the general applicability of government
mandates and scrutinize[] the asserted harm of
granting specific exemptions to particular religious
claimants’’); cf. Ramirez v. Collier, 595 U.S. 411,
433 (2022) (holding that the Religious Land Use and
Institutionalized Persons Act, which applies
RFRA’s test for religious defenses in the prison
context, ‘‘requires that courts take cases one at a
time, considering only ‘the particular claimant
whose sincere exercise of religion is being
substantially burdened’ ’’ (quoting Holt, 574 U.S. at
363)).

PO 00000

Frm 00055

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29149

rights of employers under the First
Amendment and RFRA.’’ 256 Consistent
with RFRA, as part of that analysis, the
Commission will ensure when
considering the application of any
RFRA defense raised that it assesses
whether any religious burden imposed
on the employer is substantial and
whether enforcement is the least
restrictive means of furthering a
compelling governmental interest, as
applied to that employer. It will further
analyze any defense to ensure that any
limitation on enforcement is
constitutionally permissible under the
Establishment Clause.257
Here, the Commission generally
explains its understanding of the
requirements of RFRA and provides
some information regarding how RFRA
may apply in the context of the PWFA.
As stated above, RFRA requires a factspecific analysis. Thus, in a specific
situation, the information provided here
may or may not apply.258
Although RFRA applies to
enforcement by the Government, in
order to inform the Commission of
possible RFRA defenses and reasons the
Government should not bring an
enforcement action, an employer may
raise a RFRA defense at any point
during the Commission’s administrative
process. Assuming the employer
asserted a RFRA defense based on a
sincerely held religious belief, the
Commission would first assess whether,
were the Government to bring a lawsuit
to enforce the PWFA against the
employer, that enforcement would
impose a substantial burden on the
employer’s religious exercise.259 The
Commission would consider a variety of
factors in making that assessment.260
256 Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at (12–I)(C)(3).
257 See infra in the preamble in section 1636.7
under Response to Comments Related to First
Amendment Establishment Clause Considerations.
258 Initially, the Commission notes that for a
RFRA defense to arise in litigation brought by the
Commission under the PWFA, there would first
have to be a charge of discrimination filed where
the employer refused to provide an accommodation
based on its religious exercise. Then, prior to filing
an enforcement action in court, the Commission
would have to investigate the charge, find
reasonable cause, and decide to bring litigation. At
any point during that administrative process, the
employer could assert a RFRA defense.
259 See Harris Funeral Homes, 884 F.3d at 587
(‘‘Under Holt v. Hobbs . . . a government action
that puts a religious practitioner to the choice of
engaging in conduct that seriously violates his
religious beliefs or facing serious consequences
constitutes a substantial burden for the purposes of
RFRA.’’) (internal citations, quotation marks, and
alterations omitted).
260 See, e.g., Hobby Lobby, 573 U.S. at 720–26
(finding that a contraceptive mandate imposed a
substantial burden on religious beliefs by forcing
employers to choose between providing coverage or

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29150

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

The Commission also would consider
whether, as applied in the specific case,
filing a PWFA enforcement lawsuit
would further the Government’s
compelling interest,261 including as
expressed by Congress.262
Finally, the Commission disagrees
with comments stating that the
Commission must file suit against those
paying ‘‘an enormous sum of money—as much as
$475 million per year’’ if they did not); Harris
Funeral Homes, 884 F.3d at 586–90 (holding that
the employer’s religious exercise would not be
substantially burdened by continuing to employ a
transgender worker); Braidwood Mgmt., 70 F.4th at
938 (finding a substantial burden by being forced
to employ individuals whose conduct violates ‘‘the
company’s convictions’’).
261 See, e.g., Hobby Lobby, 573 U.S. at 733 (‘‘The
Government has a compelling interest in providing
an equal opportunity to participate in the workforce
without regard to race, and prohibitions on racial
discrimination are precisely tailored to achieve that
critical goal.’’); Harris Funeral Homes, 884 F.3d at
591–92; Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran
Church & Sch. v. EEOC, 565 U.S. 171, 196 (2012)
(‘‘The interest of society in the enforcement of
employment discrimination statutes is undoubtedly
important.’’); Fremont Christian Sch., 781 F.2d at
1368–69 (‘‘By enacting Title VII, Congress clearly
targeted the elimination of all forms of
discrimination as a ‘highest priority’ . . . .
Congress’ purpose to end discrimination is equally
if not more compelling than other interests that
have been held to justify legislation that burdened
the exercise of religious convictions.’’ (quoting
EEOC v. Pacific Press Publ’g Ass’n, 676 F.2d 1272,
1280 (9th Cir. 1982), abrogated on other grounds by
Emp. Div., Dep’t of Hum. Res. of Oregon v. Smith,
494 U.S. 872 (1990)); Miss. Coll., 626 F.2d 477, 488
(5th Cir. 1980) (stating, in a Title VII subpoena
enforcement action related to a race and sex
discrimination charge, that ‘‘the government has a
compelling interest in eradicating discrimination in
all forms’’); Redhead v. Conf. of Seventh-Day
Adventists, 440 F. Supp. 2d 211, 220 (E.D.N.Y.
2006) (rejecting a RFRA defense in a Title VII sex
discrimination case and stating, ‘‘generally, Title
VII’s purpose of eradicating employment
discrimination is a ‘compelling government
interest’ ’’); see also H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at
32 (‘‘Although religious employers may claim that
a required accommodation is a substantial burden
on their free exercise of religion under RFRA, it is
the position of the Committee that
nondiscrimination provisions are a compelling
government interest and the least restrictive means
to achieve the policy of equal employment
opportunity.’’); cf. Bd. of Dirs. of Rotary Int’l v.
Rotary Club of Duarte, 481 U.S. 537, 549 (1987)
(observing that the State has a compelling interest
in eliminating sex-based discrimination) (citing
Roberts v. U.S. Jaycees, 468 U.S. 609, 624 (1984)
(explaining that the goal of ‘‘eliminating
discrimination and assuring [citizens] equal access
to publicly available goods and services . . .
plainly serves compelling state interests of the
highest order’’) (internal citation omitted))).
262 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 5 (stating
under the report’s purpose and summary, ‘‘When
pregnant workers do not have access to reasonable
workplace accommodations, they are often forced to
choose between their financial security and a
healthy pregnancy. Ensuring that pregnant workers
have access to reasonable accommodations will
promote the economic well-being of working
mothers and their families and promote healthy
pregnancies.’’); see also Little Sisters, 140 S. Ct. at
2392 (Alito, J., concurring) (observing that courts
‘‘answer the compelling interest question simply by
asking whether Congress has treated the [interest]
as a compelling interest’’) (emphasis in original).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

employers the Commission believes
have a valid RFRA defense so that the
covered entities may avoid liability by
successfully proving their RFRA defense
in court. Imposing such a requirement
would infringe on the executive
branch’s Article II authority to
determine which enforcement actions to
bring, and the Commission will not
interpret the PWFA to impose any
unconstitutional requirements.263 The
Commission concludes that the better
approach to situations in which it agrees
with employers regarding their RFRA
defenses raised during the
administrative process is to refrain from
bringing an enforcement action.264

Comments Regarding the Ministerial
Exception

Constitutional Considerations

The Commission declines to make
changes regarding its interpretation of
the ministerial exception, as the
Commission’s position is consistent
with the relevant Supreme Court case
law and reflects the policies set forth in
this preamble. The Commission will
apply the exception on a case-by-case
basis in light of the facts,268 and in
determining whether the exception
applies to a claim, the Commission
follows the Supreme Court’s reasoning
in Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran
Church & School v. EEOC,269 Our Lady
of Guadalupe School v. MorrisseyBerru,270 and other applicable
decisions, reviewing the factors set out
by the Court. For example, if a religious
school instructor employed by the
Catholic Church as a Catechist (typically
the type of teacher who performs vital
religious duties) 271 asks her employer
for time to attend prenatal appointments
and the employer refuses to provide the
leave because the teacher is pregnant
but not married, and raises the
ministerial exception as a defense to the
employee’s charge of discrimination, the
Commission (after gathering relevant
facts about the applicability of that
defense) will likely apply the
ministerial exception and find that the
employee is not entitled to the
requested accommodation. In making
such a determination, the Commission
will ‘‘take all relevant circumstances
into account’’ and determine whether
the ‘‘particular position implicate[s] the
fundamental purpose of the
exception.’’ 272

The Ministerial Exception
As set out in the NPRM, the Supreme
Court has recognized a ministerial
exception, derived from the religion
clauses of the First Amendment, which
may provide an affirmative defense to
an otherwise cognizable claim of a
certain category of employees under
certain anti-discrimination laws,
including the PWFA. Under the
ministerial exception, a religious
organization may select those who will
‘‘personify its beliefs,’’ ‘‘shape its own
faith and mission,’’ or ‘‘minister to the
faithful.’’ 265 The exception applies to
discrimination claims involving the
selection, supervision, and removal by a
religious institution of employees who
perform vital religious duties at the core
of the mission of the religious
institution.266
263 See, e.g., United States v. Texas, 599 U.S. 670,
678 (2023) (‘‘Under Article II, the Executive Branch
possesses authority to decide ‘how to prioritize and
how aggressively to pursue legal actions against
defendants who violate the law.’’’ (citations
omitted)); id. at 679 (‘‘[T]he Executive Branch has
exclusive authority and absolute discretion to
decide whether to prosecute a case’’) (quoting
United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 693 (1974))
(internal quotation marks omitted).
264 Additionally, under section 706(f)(1) of Title
VII, which is incorporated into the PWFA in 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2(a)(1), an employee may, as a matter
of right, intervene in a case brought by the
Commission on behalf of that employee. Thus, even
if the Commission were required to bring such an
action, the employer could still face a claim from
the employee.
265 Hosanna-Tabor, 565 U.S. at 188–89.
266 Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at (12–I)(C)(2)
(citing Our Lady of Guadalupe Sch. v. MorrisseyBerru, 591 U.S. __, 140 S. Ct. 2049, 2055, 2066
(2020)). There is some disagreement among courts
as to the applicability of the ministerial exception
to hostile work environment claims. Compare
Demkovich v. St. Andrew the Apostle Par., Calumet
City, 3 F.4th 968, 979 (7th Cir. 2021) (applying the
ministerial exception to a hostile work environment
claim involving allegations of minister-on-minister
harassment), with Elvig v. Calvin Presbyterian
Church, 375 F.3d 951, 962 (9th Cir. 2004) (finding
that a hostile work environment claim was not
barred by the ministerial exception, because sexual

PO 00000

Frm 00056

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

A few comments requested that the
Commission state or clarify the scope of
the First Amendment ‘‘ministerial
exception’’ in the final rule, including
by: adding language from Our Lady of
Guadalupe School v. Morrissey-Berru to
the rule; 267 stating that the exception
bars all PWFA claims for qualifying
ministerial employees; or stating that
the PWFA covers a religious entity’s
non-ministerial employees.
Response to Comments Regarding the
Ministerial Exception

harassment is not a protected employment
decision).
267 See generally 140 S. Ct. at 2049.
268 See id. at 2063 (‘‘In determining whether a
particular position falls within the Hosanna-Tabor
exception, a variety of factors may be important.’’).
269 See 565 U.S. at 190–94.
270 See 140 S. Ct. at 2063–69.
271 See id. at 2057, 2066.
272 See 140 S. Ct. at 2067.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
First Amendment Establishment and
Free Exercise Clause Considerations
The First Amendment provides that
‘‘Congress shall make no law respecting
an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof.’’ 273
Under the Establishment Clause of the
First Amendment, the Government’s
actions cannot establish religion; in
other words, ‘‘government may not,
consistent with a historically sensitive
understanding of the Establishment
Clause, make a religious observance
compulsory.’’ 274
Under the Free Exercise Clause, the
‘‘Government fails to act neutrally when
it proceeds in a manner intolerant of
religious beliefs or restricts practices
because of their religious nature.’’ 275
Where a law burdens religious exercise
and is not neutral or generally
applicable, it is subject to strict scrutiny,
meaning that it must advance a
compelling governmental interest and
be narrowly tailored to achieve that
interest.276 By contrast, laws that merely
incidentally burden religion are
ordinarily not subject to strict scrutiny,
and thus do not need to be justified by
a compelling governmental interest, to
defeat a Free Exercise claim, as long as
they are neutral and generally
applicable.277 Laws are not neutral and
generally applicable ‘‘whenever they
treat any comparable secular activity
more favorably than religious
exercise.’’ 278 In addition, ‘‘[a] law is not
generally applicable if it invite[s] the
government to consider the particular
reasons for a person’s conduct by
providing a mechanism for
individualized exemptions’’ that are
entirely discretionary.279

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

273 U.S. Const. amend. I.
274 Kennedy v. Bremerton Sch. Dist., 597 U.S. 507,
536–37 (2022) (citation and internal quotation
marks omitted).
275 Fulton v. City of Philadelphia, 593 U.S. 522,
533 (2021) (citations omitted).
276 See, e.g., id. at 541 (citation omitted); Church
of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. City of Hialeah, 508
U.S. 520, 531–32 (1993).
277 Fulton, 593 U.S. at 533 (citing Emp’t Div.,
Dep’t of Hum. Res. of Ore. v. Smith, 494 U.S. 872,
878–82 (1990)).
278 Tandon v. Newsom, 593 U.S. 61, 62 (2021)
(per curiam) (providing that whether two activities
are comparable must be judged against the
governmental interest that justifies the law at issue
and concerns the risks various activities pose); see
also Fulton, 593 U.S. at 534 (‘‘A law . . . lacks
general applicability if it prohibits religious
conduct while permitting secular conduct that
undermines the government’s asserted interests in
a similar way.’’).
279 Fulton, 593 U.S. at 533, 535 (citing Smith, 494
U.S. at 884 (1990)) (internal quotation marks
omitted).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Comments Related to First Amendment
Establishment Clause Considerations
As noted above, the Commission
received comments stating that the
Commission must conduct an
individualized review of any defense
asserted under RFRA and ensure that
there is a sufficiently strong nexus
between the asserted burden and a
religious exercise, the religious exercise
is based on sincerely held religious
beliefs, the burden is substantial, and
the action taken by the government is
tailored to address the burden. Further,
comments asserted that the Commission
must conduct an Establishment Clause
analysis of any asserted RFRA defense.
Response to Comments Related to First
Amendment Establishment Clause
Considerations
The Commission agrees that when
evaluating a religious employer’s RFRA
defense or any other religious defense,
the Commission will consider the
Establishment Clause implications as
part of its case-by-case analysis.280
Comments Related to First Amendment
Free Exercise Clause Considerations
Several comments stated that the rule
could violate a covered entity’s First
Amendment right to the free exercise of
religion. Some comments disputed
whether the final rule is a rule of
general applicability, asserting that the
PWFA is not generally applicable, e.g.,
because it contains religious exemptions
and excludes small employers with
fewer than 15 employees.
Response to Comments Related to First
Amendment Free Exercise Clause
Considerations
The PWFA, like Title VII, is a neutral
law of general applicability.281 Thus, it
does not need to be justified by a
compelling governmental interest and
narrowly tailored to achieve that
interest under the First Amendment
Free Exercise Clause.282 The PWFA
280 As the Supreme Court has observed, ‘‘The
First Amendment provides, in part, that Congress
shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. We
have said that these two Clauses often exert
conflicting pressures, and that there can be internal
tension between the Establishment Clause and the
Free Exercise Clause.’’ Hosanna-Tabor, 565 U.S. at
181 (internal citations and quotation marks
omitted).
281 See, e.g., Hosanna-Tabor, 565 U.S. at 190
(stating in dicta that the ADA’s anti-retaliation
provision, which (like Title VII) exempts certain
employers for secular reasons, ‘‘is a valid and
neutral law of general applicability’’); EEOC v.
Cath. Univ. of Am., 83 F.3d 455, 467 (D.C. Cir.
1996) (stating that Title VII is ‘‘a neutral law of
general application’’).
282 See Fulton, 593 U.S. at 533 (citing Smith, 494
U.S. at 878–82); see also Smith, 494 U.S. at 894
(O’Connor, J., concurring).

PO 00000

Frm 00057

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29151

does not provide any system of
discretionary, individualized
exemptions for any secular employers,
and it does not treat religious exercise
any less favorably than comparable
secular activities.283 Congress, in
enacting the PWFA, as it did with Title
VII, exempted employers (both secular
and religious) with fewer than 15
employees.284 It also provided an
exception for religious employers under
the rule of construction, which requires
the Commission to assess whether an
entity is a qualifying religious employer
under an established set of factors based
in case law.285 Thus, the PWFA does
not provide the Commission with
discretion to grant individualized
exemptions, for either secular or
religious purposes.286
283 See, e.g., Fulton, 593 U.S. at 533–34 (citing
Lukumi Babalu Aye, 508 U.S. at 542–46; Smith, 494
U.S. at 884).
284 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(B)(i), 2000e(b). The
Commission rejects the assertion that simply
because the PWFA only applies to businesses with
15 or more employees, the Commission can never
make out a compelling interest. See, e.g., Harris
Funeral Homes, 884 F.3d at 600 (‘‘EEOC has shown
that enforcing Title VII here is the least restrictive
means of furthering its compelling interest in
combating and eradicating sex discrimination.’’). As
the Supreme Court has noted, Congress decided to
limit Title VII’s coverage to firms with 15 or more
employees for the purpose of ‘‘easing entry into the
market and preserving the competitive position of
smaller firms.’’ Clackamas Gastroenterology
Assocs., P.C. v. Wells, 538 U.S. 440, 447 (2003)
(quoting the lower court’s dissent, that ‘‘Congress
decided to spare very small firms from the
potentially crushing expense of mastering the
intricacies of the antidiscrimination laws,
establishing procedures to assure compliance, and
defending against suits when efforts at compliance
fail’’) (citation and internal quotation marks
omitted). The legislative history of Title VII
supports this proposition. See Tomka v. Seiler
Corp., 66 F.3d 1295, 1314 (2d Cir. 1995) (outlining
Title VII’s legislative history around the factors
Congress considered in enacting 42 U.S.C. 2000e(b),
including the costs associated with defending
against discrimination claims), abrogated on other
grounds as recognized by Eisenhauer v. Culinary
Inst. of Am., 84 F.4th 507, 524, n.83 (2d Cir. 2023).
Federal statutes often include exemptions for small
employers, and such exemptions do not undermine
the larger interests served by those statutes. See,
e.g., FMLA, 29 U.S.C. 2611(4)(A)(i) (applicable to
employers with 50 or more employees); ADEA, 29
U.S.C. 630(b) (originally exempting employers with
fewer than 50 employees, 81 Stat. 605, the statute
now governs employers with 20 or more
employees); ADA, 42 U.S.C. 12111(5)(A) (applicable
to employers with 15 or more employees). The
government’s generally applicable goal of protecting
small businesses from the burdens of regulatory
compliance is not comparable to the type of
discretionary, individualized exemption that the
Supreme Court rejected in Fulton. See 593 U.S. at
533–34.
285 See supra in the preamble in section 1636.7(b)
Rule of Construction.
286 Cf. Fulton, 593 U.S. at 536–41 (providing that
the inclusion of ‘‘a formal system of entirely
discretionary exceptions’’ in the contractual
nondiscrimination requirement at issue rendered
the requirement not generally applicable and thus
subject to strict scrutiny).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29152

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

First Amendment Free Speech and
Expressive Association Considerations

of violating the PWFA’s anti-retaliation
and anti-coercion provisions.

The First Amendment provides that
‘‘Congress shall make no law . . .
abridging the freedom of speech.’’ 287 To
determine whether ‘‘particular conduct
possesses sufficient communicative
elements to bring the First Amendment
into play,’’ courts consider whether
‘‘[a]n intent to convey a particularized
message was present, and [whether] the
likelihood was great that the message
would be understood by those who
viewed it.’’ 288
The Supreme Court also has
recognized a ‘‘right to associate for the
purpose of engaging in those activities
protected by the First Amendment.’’ 289
The freedom of expressive association
includes a freedom not to associate.290
In order for Government action to
unconstitutionally burden the right of
expressive association, a group must
engage in expressive association.291 If a
group does so, then the proper inquiry
is whether the Government action at
issue, often the forced inclusion of a
member, would significantly affect the
group’s ability to advocate public or
private viewpoints.292 Finally, to
determine whether the Government’s
interest justifies the burden, the
Government’s interest implicated in its
action is weighed against the burden
imposed on the associational
expression.293

Response to Comments Related to First
Amendment Free Speech
Considerations
The Commission does not agree that
the PWFA or the final rule infringes on
any covered entity’s freedom of speech.
The act of making a personnel decision,
such as employing or continuing to
employ an individual who has engaged
in personal conduct with which an
employer disagrees, is not protected
speech or expressive conduct that
communicates the employer’s
agreement with the individual’s
personal decisions.294 In this business
context, providing an employee a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA during their employment does
not constitute speech or expressive
conduct on the part of the employer.295
As discussed in relation to the
PWFA’s rule of construction, whether
an employer’s policies or actions could
implicate the PWFA’s anti-retaliation or
anti-coercion provision is a highly factspecific inquiry. For over four decades,
the Commission has interpreted Title
VII, which contains an anti-retaliation
provision, to protect employees from
being fired for having an abortion or
contemplating an abortion, and courts
have affirmed this interpretation.296 The
Commission is not aware of any cases
during these past four decades in which
an employer has challenged this
interpretation on First Amendment free
speech grounds. Likewise, the ADA has
language similar to the PWFA’s anticoercion provision in its interference
provision, and the Commission is
similarly unaware of any cases where an
employer challenged the interference
provision on First Amendment free
speech grounds. In addition, the
Commission has explained in the
preamble and the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.5(f) Prohibition Against

Comments Related to First Amendment
Free Speech Considerations
Several comments asserted that
including infertility treatments,
contraception, abortion, sterilization,
and surrogacy in the definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ would require
covered entities to provide
accommodations for employees that
would violate the entities’ freedom of
speech. For example, some comments
stated that providing an accommodation
related to an employee’s abortion would
chill the speech of covered entities by
requiring them to convey a message to
employees and the public that abortion
is a legitimate medical procedure,
contrary to their anti-abortion beliefs or
identity, or because maintaining their
policies would put them in the position
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

287 U.S. Const. amend. I.
288 Texas v. Johnson, 491 U.S. 397, 404 (1989)
(quoting Spence v. Washington, 418 U.S 405, 410–
11 (1974)).
289 Jaycees, 468 U.S. at 618.
290 Id. at 622–23.
291 Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, 530 U.S. 640,
648 (2000).
292 Id. at 650.
293 Id. at 658–59.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

294 See Harris Funeral Homes, 884 F.3d at 589–
90 (providing that ‘‘bare compliance’’ with
antidiscrimination laws does not amount to an
endorsement of a certain viewpoint).
295 See also Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic &
Institutional Rights, Inc., 547 U.S. 47, 65–67 (2006)
(concluding that a law requiring that institutions of
higher education allow military recruiters access
equal to that provided to other recruiters, or lose
certain Federal funds, regulated conduct, not
speech, and the regulated conduct was not
inherently expressive such that it was protected
under the First Amendment).
296 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A)(4)(c) & n.58;
Doe, 527 F.3d at 364 (holding that Title VII, as
amended by the PDA, prohibits an employer from
discriminating against a female employee because
she has exercised her right to have an abortion);
Turic, 85 F.3d at 1214 (finding the termination of
a pregnant employee because she contemplated
having an abortion violated the PDA).

PO 00000

Frm 00058

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Retaliation the type of actions that
could be violations under the anticoercion and anti-retaliation provisions;
they do not involve protected speech.297
Nevertheless, should the Commission
receive a charge alleging coercion or
retaliation, and should the responding
employer raise constitutional concerns
as a defense to the charge during the
administrative charge process, the
Commission will evaluate each claim on
a case-by-case basis under the process it
has outlined above.298
Comments Related to First Amendment
Expressive Association Considerations
Some comments asserted that
including certain pregnancy-related
health care services as medical
conditions related to pregnancy or
childbirth would require covered
entities to provide accommodations for
employees that would violate the
entities’ First Amendment right to
expressive association. In particular,
some comments stated that employers,
particularly those whose express
mission is to oppose abortion, might be
required under the rule to hire, or
continue to employ, or promote,
employees who have abortions in
violation of an employer’s policies.
Response to Comments Related to First
Amendment Expressive Association
Considerations
The Commission does not agree that
the PWFA or the final rule infringes on
any covered entity’s freedom of
expressive association. First, the
Commission is unaware of any case
holding that enforcing Title VII violates
the First Amendment’s right of free
association, and, indeed, the Supreme
Court has expressly held to the
contrary.299 Second, assuming that a
covered entity can show that it engages
in expressive activity, with the possible
exception of certain mission-driven
organizations, it is unlikely that a
covered entity also could show that
simply allowing an employee to access
an accommodation would significantly
affect its ability to advocate public or
private viewpoints.300 The Commission
297 See § 1636.5(f).
298 See supra note 242.
299 Hishon v. King & Spalding, 467 U.S. 69, 78
(1984) (holding that, as applied to a law firm
partnership, Title VII did not infringe employer’s
‘‘constitutional rights of expression or association’’);
see also id. (observing that ‘‘[i]nvidious private
discrimination may be characterized as a form of
exercising freedom of association protected by the
First Amendment, but it has never been accorded
affirmative constitutional protections’’) (citation
and internal quotation marks omitted).
300 Compare Boy Scouts, 530 U.S. at 655–59
(determining that retaining a gay scoutmaster would
significantly affect the organization’s expression),

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
believes its position strikes the correct
balance between, on one hand, the
Government’s interest in ensuring
employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
are able to remain healthy and in their
jobs and, on the other, the employer’s
ability to express its message to the
public, its employees, and other
stakeholders such that its advocacy is
not significantly affected by providing
an accommodation.301 Nevertheless,
should the Commission receive a charge
relating to an accommodation for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, and should the
responding employer raise
constitutional expressive association
concerns as a defense to the charge
during the charge process, the
Commission will evaluate each claim on
a case-by-case basis under the
framework outlined above.302
Comments Related to Constitutional
Avoidance
A few comments stated that including
abortion in the definition of medical
conditions related to pregnancy and
childbirth creates First Amendment free
speech and religion conflicts, and
statutes should be interpreted to avoid
constitutional concerns; therefore, the
Commission should exclude the
possibility of an employee receiving an
accommodation related to an abortion
from the regulation.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Response to Comments Related to
Constitutional Avoidance
As explained supra, the Commission
disagrees that the rule categorically
conflicts with the First Amendment,
and thus does not agree that the canon
of constitutional avoidance applies. The
Commission’s interpretation of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is consistent with
its interpretation of this phrase for more
than four decades in Title VII, as
amended by the PDA, a similar statute.
In those decades, the Commission’s
interpretation under Title VII has never
been successfully challenged on First
Amendment grounds. The comments
that raised this issue did not
and Slattery v. Hochul, 61 F.4th 278, 288 (2d Cir.
2023) (holding that rape crisis pregnancy center
stated plausible claim that application of New York
law prohibiting discrimination in employment
based on reproductive health decisions would
severely burden its right to freedom of expressive
association given that the statute, if applied, would
‘‘forc[e] [the center] to employ individuals who act
or have acted against the very mission of its
organization’’), with Rumsfeld, 547 U.S. at 68–69
(explaining that a law that allows military recruiters
equal access to law schools does not force the
school ‘‘to accept members it does not desire’’).
301 See Rumsfeld, 547 U.S. at 69–70.
302 See supra note 242.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

demonstrate that abortion must be
excluded to avoid an unconstitutional
interpretation. Moreover, the
Commission cannot anticipate whether
constitutional issues will arise in future
litigation on facts that have not yet
occurred.
Comments Regarding Requests for an
Exemption for a Covered Entity’s Moral
Objections
Several comments stated that the final
rule should provide an exemption for
covered entities that object to abortion
and other medical conditions related to
pregnancy and childbirth based on
conscience, moral, ethical, scientific,
health, or medical grounds, or for any
other reason that is not associated with
a religious belief. A few comments
further asserted that, because the PWFA
rule of construction provides an
exception for certain religious entities,
the Commission must provide an
exception for similarly situated covered
entities that object to accommodations
on non-religious grounds.
Response to Comments Regarding
Requests for an Exemption for a Covered
Entity’s Moral Objections
To create a new, stand-alone
exemption for secular entities would
exceed the Commission’s
congressionally-provided authority. In
enacting the PWFA, Congress restricted
coverage for only two categories of
employers: (1) certain qualifying
religious entities under the rule of
construction at section 107(b), ‘‘subject
to the applicability to religious
employment’’ set forth in section 702(a)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; and (2)
certain entities, regardless of religious
affiliation, that have fewer than 15
employees. The Commission notes that
an individual’s religious beliefs may
include moral and ethical beliefs,303 and
thus in individual cases, the
Commission will assess asserted
accommodation requests and objections
based on that longstanding
interpretation and applicable law.
However, the Commission will not
create through rulemaking a new
exemption for secular organizations
303 In the context of Title VII’s prohibition of
discrimination against employees based on religion,
the Commission has said that ‘‘[c]ourts have looked
for certain features to determine if an individual’s
beliefs can be considered religious.’’ To this end,
‘‘[s]ocial, political, or economic philosophies, as
well as mere personal preferences, are not religious
beliefs protected by Title VII,’’ but overlap between
a religious and political view may be protected
under Title VII ‘‘as long as that view is part of a
comprehensive religious belief system.’’
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination,
supra note 215, at (12–I)(A)(1); see also 29 CFR
1605.1.

PO 00000

Frm 00059

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29153

with certain moral or ethical beliefs,
beyond the PWFA’s existing exceptions.
Comments Regarding Requests for a Per
Se Undue Hardship Exemption
In the alternative, several comments
asserted that covered entities that do not
qualify for an exemption under the rule
of construction, but that nevertheless
object to abortion or other medical
conditions related to pregnancy or
childbirth for religious reasons, reasons
related to their mission, or other secular
reasons, should receive a per se undue
hardship exemption.
Response to Comments Regarding
Requests for a Per Se Undue Hardship
Exemption
The Commission declines to create a
per se undue hardship exemption, for
several reasons. First, the PWFA
incorporates the ADA’s ‘‘undue
hardship’’ definition, and under the
ADA, employers may assert undue
hardship as a defense but must conduct
an individualized assessment when
determining whether a reasonable
accommodation will impose an undue
hardship.304 Creating a per se rule that
an employer’s beliefs automatically and
always create an undue hardship would
be fundamentally inconsistent with this
requirement that undue hardship be
assessed as a defense on a case-by-case
basis, and would therefore be
inconsistent with the PWFA.305 This is
especially so where, as here, even the
religious beliefs of employers that share
the same religion are not monolithic,
and the specific facts and circumstances
in a given situation may affect whether
the employer objects to an employee’s
actions on religious grounds.
Second, nothing in the PWFA
provides for an exemption that directly
links the undue hardship standard to an
entity’s religious beliefs, status, or
secular beliefs. On the contrary, the
statute expressly directs that the term
‘‘undue hardship’’ should ‘‘have the
meaning[ ] given such term[ ] in [the
ADA] and shall be construed as such
304 88 FR 54734.
305 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7). The final rule creates a
small category of modifications that will, ‘‘in
virtually all cases,’’ be reasonable accommodations
that do not impose an undue hardship. Importantly,
in creating this category, the Commission did not
alter the definition of ‘‘undue hardship’’ or deprive
a covered entity of the opportunity to bring forward
facts to demonstrate that a proposed
accommodation imposes an undue hardship for its
business under its own particular circumstances,
even when one of the four simple modifications in
§ 1636.3(j)(4) is involved. Given the differences in
religious beliefs and the impact of an
accommodation that may violate those beliefs, it
would not be possible for the Commission to
determine that these beliefs would ‘‘in virtually all
cases’’ cause an undue hardship.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29154

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

[term is] construed under such Act and
as set forth in the regulations required
by this division.’’ 306
Third, the factors used to assess an
undue hardship defense typically focus
on measurable impacts on business
operations. Under the PWFA rule,
‘‘undue hardship’’ means an action
requiring significant difficulty or
expense, when considered in light of
several factors: (i) the nature and net
cost of the accommodation needed
under the PWFA; (ii) the overall
financial resources of the facility or
facilities involved in the provision of
the reasonable accommodation, the
number of persons employed at such
facility, and the effect on expenses and
resources; (iii) the overall financial
resources of the covered entity, the
overall size of the business of the
covered entity with respect to the
number of its employees, and the
number, type and location of its
facilities; (iv) the type of operation or
operations of the covered entity,
including the composition, structure,
and functions of the workforce of such
entity, and the geographic separateness
and administrative or fiscal relationship
of the facility or facilities in question to
the covered entity; and (v) the impact of
the accommodation upon the operation
of the facility, including the impact on
the ability of other employees to
perform their duties and the impact on
the facility’s ability to conduct
business.307 As explained by Congress,
‘‘Like the ADA, the PWFA seeks to
balance the interests of the employer
and employee and, although there may
be some costs associated with making a
reasonable accommodation, the ‘undue
hardship’ standard limits the employer’s
exposure both to overly burdensome
accommodation requests and lawsuits
that would attempt to hold the employer
liable for failing to provide a
prohibitively expensive
accommodation.’’ 308
The Commission has stated that under
the ADA, ‘‘the ‘undue hardship’
provision takes into account the
financial realities of the particular
employer or other covered entity.
However, the concept of undue
hardship is not limited to financial
difficulty. ‘Undue hardship’ refers to
any accommodation that would be
unduly costly, extensive, substantial, or
disruptive, or that would fundamentally
alter the nature or operation of the
306 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).
307 88 FR 54769; § 1636.3(j).
308 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 29.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

business.’’ 309 Of note, cases interpreting
the impact of a reasonable
accommodation on other employees or
the facility’s ability to conduct business
have generally been about distribution
of workloads, business operational
needs, and elemental changes to the
day-to-day operations of a business, not
the moral views of coworkers or
employers.310 That said, the
Commission will, as it currently does,
consider all assertions of the undue
hardship defense on a case-by-case
basis, including whether granting a
particular reasonable accommodation
would ‘‘fundamentally alter the nature
of the business.’’
Additionally, in determining whether
there is disruption to the covered
entity’s business under the ADA, the
Commission has stated with regard to
disabilities that an employer will be
unable to ‘‘show undue hardship if the
disruption to its employees [is] the
result of those employees’ fears or
prejudices toward the individual’s
disability and not the result of the
provision of the accommodation. Nor
[will] the employer be able to
demonstrate undue hardship by
showing that the provision of the
accommodation has a negative impact
309 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(p) (citing
S. Rep. No. 101–116, at 35 (1989); H.R. Rep. 101–
485, pt. 2, at 67 (1990)).
310 See, e.g., Milton v. Scrivner, Inc., 53 F.3d
1118, 1125 (10th Cir. 1995) (providing that an
accommodation that would result in other
employees having to work harder or longer hours
is not required; slowing the production schedule or
assigning the plaintiffs lighter loads would
fundamentally alter the nature of the defendant’s
warehouse operation, a change not required by law)
(citing 29 CFR 1630.2(p)(2)(v) and 29 CFR part
1630, appendix, 1630.2(p)); Turco v. Hoechst
Celanese Corp., 101 F.3d 1090, 1094 (5th Cir. 1996)
(determining that, where the employer had no
straight day-shift chemical operator positions,
moving the plaintiff to such a shift would place a
heavier burden on the rest of the operators in the
plant and was not required under the ADA); Mears
v. Gulfstream Aerospace Corp., 905 F. Supp. 1075,
1081 (S.D. Ga. 1995) (concluding that an
accommodation that would require employees from
six different departments to deliver invoices to the
plaintiff adversely impacted other employees’
ability to do their jobs and was an undue burden),
aff’d, 87 F.3d 1331 (11th Cir. 1996); Bryant v.
Caritas Norwood Hosp., 345 F. Supp. 2d 155, 171
(D. Mass. 2004) (shifting responsibility for an
essential function, all heavy lifting, to coworkers
would have a deleterious impact on the ability of
coworkers to do their own jobs); Fralick v. Ford, No.
2:12–CV–1210, 2014 WL 1875705, at *7 (D. Utah
May 9, 2014) (permitting the plaintiff to work fewer
than 60 hours per week was found to
‘‘fundamentally alter the nature of’’ the finance
manager position and therefore was not a
reasonable accommodation); cf. Morrill v. Acadia
Healthcare, No. 2:17–CV–01332, 2020 WL 1249478,
at *8 (D. Utah Mar. 16, 2020) (determining that the
defendant failed to establish that prior equitable
distribution of a mopping task amongst all
employees, as a reasonable accommodation,
impeded functioning of the business or harmed
coworkers).

PO 00000

Frm 00060

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

on the morale of its other employees but
not on the ability of these employees to
perform their jobs.’’ 311 As the definition
of ‘‘undue hardship’’ under the PWFA
follows the ADA, the same rules will
apply. An employer will not be able to
demonstrate undue hardship under the
PWFA if the disruption to its employees
was the result of those employees’ fears
or prejudices. Nor would the employer
be able to demonstrate undue hardship
by showing that the provision of the
accommodation has a negative impact
on the morale of its other employees but
not on the ability of these employees to
perform their jobs.
Ultimately, an employer may assert an
undue hardship defense to any PWFA
claim. An employer may be able to
show undue hardship if the provision of
a particular accommodation results in
an impact that is unduly costly,
extensive, substantial, or disruptive, or
that would fundamentally alter the
nature or operation of the business.312
As with all undue hardship
assessments, an employer would need
to show individualized evidence of
undue hardship.
Other Comments and Response to
Comments Regarding Religious and
Conscience Considerations
Several comments stated that the
inclusion of abortion as a related
medical condition revealed that the
Commission harbored anti-Catholic
bias, and others claimed that the
Commission would target Catholic
employers for enforcement.
As explained above, the Commission
interprets the PWFA’s provision
regarding pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions consistent
with the PWFA’s text and the
Commission’s interpretation of identical
language in Title VII, an interpretation
adopted more than 40 years ago. The
Commission disagrees that interpreting
the PWFA in a manner consistent with
the statutory text and the agency’s
decades-long interpretation of Title VII
is suggestive of any anti-Catholic bias or
that the Commission otherwise harbors
any bias. The Commission’s
enforcement decisions are based on
whether the facts of the charge show
reasonable cause to believe
discrimination occurred. Further, the
Commission’s history under Title VII
reflects that the Commission brings
cases that protect employees who are
being harassed about their decision not
to have an abortion and that protect the
311 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.15(d).
312 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(p).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
religious views of employees who
oppose abortion.313
Second, some comments asserted that
an employer’s potential obligation
under the PWFA to provide an
accommodation for abortion could
violate the religious rights of other
employees, such as human resources
employees, who would have to explain
to an employee that a reasonable
accommodation is available in these
circumstances and process the
paperwork. The Commission has
addressed steps employers may take to
respond to conflicts with religious
beliefs in these circumstances in its
Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination.314
Third, some comments stated that if
employees decide to work for a religious
employer, then they must abide by the
employer’s beliefs or risk consequences.
The Commission made no changes
based on these comments. As explained
above, the PWFA provides for defenses
for religious organizations and is subject
to certain other constitutional and
statutory exceptions. But none of those
defenses or exceptions remove all rights
from employees who are employed by
religious employers.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.8 Severability
In the final rule, the Commission has
added that the severability provisions
express the Commission’s intent as to
severability. Further, the Commission
clarified that its intent regarding
severability applies to the Interpretive
Guidance as well and has included this
language in the Interpretive Guidance in
section 1636.8 Severability.
As stated in the Interpretive Guidance
in section 1636.8 Severability, pursuant
to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–6, in places where
the regulation uses the same language as
the statute, if any of those identical
regulatory provisions, or the application
of those provisions to particular persons
313 See, e.g., EEOC v. Big Lots Stores, Inc., No.
9:08–CV–177, 2009 WL 10677352, at *6 (E.D. Tex.
Oct. 6, 2009) (alleging, as part of the plaintiff’s
harassment claim, that the harasser urged the
plaintiff to have an abortion). Other suits brought
by the EEOC regarding abortion pertained to the
EEOC protecting the religious views of employees.
See, e.g., EEOC v. Univ. of Detroit, 904 F.2d 331,
335 (6th Cir. 1990) (suit brought by EEOC on behalf
of an employee who did not want to pay union dues
because the dues were used to support political
action in favor of abortion, which the employee
disagreed with on religious grounds); EEOC v. Am.
Fed’n of State, Cnty. & Mun. Emps., AFL–CIO, 937
F. Supp. 166, 167 (N.D.N.Y. 1996) (addressing a
lawsuit brought by EEOC on behalf of an employee
who did not want to pay union dues because the
dues were used to support political action in favor
of abortion and the death penalty, which the
employee disagreed with on religious grounds).
314 Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination, supra note 215, at Examples #44 &
#45.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

or circumstances, is held invalid or
found to be unconstitutional, the
remainder of the regulation and the
application of that provision of the
regulation to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected. For
example, if § 1636.4(d) (which uses the
same language as 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4)
and prohibits a covered entity from
requiring a qualified employee to take
leave as a reasonable accommodation if
there is another reasonable
accommodation that can be provided)
were to be found invalid or
unconstitutional, it is the intent of the
Commission that the remainder of the
regulation shall not be affected. The
Commission would continue to enforce
the statute but, in this hypothetical
example, would not consider it a
violation if an employer required an
employee to take leave as a reasonable
accommodation when there was another
reasonable accommodation available.
Where the regulation or the
Interpretive Guidance provides
additional guidance to carry out the
PWFA, including examples of
reasonable accommodations, it is the
Commission’s intent that if any of those
provisions or the application of those
provisions to particular persons or
circumstances were to be held invalid or
found to be unconstitutional, the
remainder of the regulation or the
Interpretive Guidance and the
application of that provision of the
regulation or the Interpretive Guidance
to other persons or circumstances shall
not be affected. For example, if a court
were to determine that a certain medical
condition such as a pelvic prolapse is
not found to be a ‘‘related medical
condition’’ in a specific case, the
Commission intends other conditions
could still be determined to be ‘‘related
medical conditions,’’ including pelvic
prolapse in another case, depending on
the facts.
Preamble to the Final Economic
Analysis
Executive Orders 12866 (Regulatory
Planning and Review), 13563
(Improving Regulation and Regulatory
Review), and 14094 (Modernizing
Regulatory Review)
Summary of the Commission’s
Preliminary Economic Analysis of
Impacts: Costs
According to the Commission’s
preliminary economic analysis, the
proposed rule would impose two
quantifiable costs on employers: the
annual cost of providing pregnancyrelated reasonable accommodations as a
result of the statute and the rule, and the
one-time cost of becoming familiar with

PO 00000

Frm 00061

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29155

the rule. In all cases, the Commission
relied on publicly available data for its
estimates.315
To estimate the annual cost of
providing pregnancy-related reasonable
accommodations as a result of the
statute and the rule, the Commission
first estimated the total number of
employees who were not independently
entitled to PWFA-type accommodations
under an analogous State law, which the
Commission calculated is 65.11 million
employees.
The Commission then estimated the
number of such individuals who will be
entitled to a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA. To do so, the
Commission first assumed that the
number of such individuals will be
approximately the same as the number
of individuals who actually become
pregnant during that year. Again, based
on publicly available data, the
Commission estimated that 33 percent
of the 65.11 million employees who are
not independently entitled to PWFAtype accommodations under an
analogous State law are capable of
becoming pregnant, and that of these,
4.7 percent will actually become
pregnant in a given year. Applying these
percentages yielded a total estimate of
one million individuals who (a) were
not independently entitled to PWFAtype accommodations under an
analogous State law, and (b) will
actually become pregnant during a given
year. Finally, the Commission estimated
that between 23 percent (‘‘lower bound
estimate’’) and 71 percent (‘‘upper
bound estimate’’) of these one million
individuals (between 230,000 and
710,000 individuals) will require a
pregnancy-related reasonable
accommodation.
To calculate the associated costs, the
Commission first estimated that the
accommodations needed by 49.4
percent of the individuals above will
have zero cost, leaving between 116,000
and 360,000 individuals needing
accommodations with non-zero cost. It
then estimated that each of the
accommodations needed by these
individuals would cost an average of
$300 distributed over 5 years, or $60
annually. Multiplying these numbers
together yielded final estimated annual
costs of between $6 million and $18
million for private employers; between
$800,000 and $2.4 million for State and
local government employers; and
between $300,000 and $800,000 for
Federal employers.
315 For the Commission’s preliminary economic
analysis, see 88 FR 54754–65.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29156

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Estimated Percentage of
Individuals Capable of Becoming
Pregnant Who Will Actually Become
Pregnant in a Given Year
As explained above, in the NPRM, the
Commission estimated that 4.7 percent
of individuals who are capable of
becoming pregnant will actually become
pregnant in a given year.316 Some
comments stated that this estimate is too
low because the Commission based its
estimate on research that tracked the
percentage of women participants who
gave birth in a given year. As such, the
4.7 percent estimate did not include
individuals who became pregnant in a
given year but did not give birth,
including individuals who had
miscarriages, stillbirths, or abortions.
Because this figure was used to
calculate the number of reasonable
accommodations needed, the comments
further reasoned, the cost estimates did
not take into account any reasonable
accommodations needed by individuals
who had miscarriages, stillbirths, or
abortions.
The Commission agrees that the
research it relied upon did not take
account of individuals who became
pregnant during a given year but who
did not give birth, and therefore that its
previous estimate of 4.7 percent was too
low. To correct the shortcoming, the
Commission has relied upon Centers for
Disease Control (CDC) research showing
that, between 2015 and 2019, live births
in the United States accounted for 67%
of all pregnancies among women aged
15–44 years on average.317 Assuming
that the ratio of live births to total
pregnancies among women of
reproductive age in the labor force is the
same as among all 15–44 years old
women, the Commission thus estimates
that the percentage of individuals
capable of becoming pregnant who will
actually become pregnant in given year
is 0.047 ÷ 0.67 = 0.071 (rounded up), or
7.1 percent. This revised estimate is
used in the revised economic analysis
below.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Percentage of Pregnant
Employees Needing a Reasonable
Accommodation Under the PWFA
As explained above, in the NPRM, the
Commission estimated that between 23
percent (lower bound estimate) and 71
percent (upper bound estimate) of

individuals who are actually pregnant
in a given year will need a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA.318
The report that the Commission used to
arrive at these estimates stated that 71
percent of pregnant individuals
surveyed needed more frequent breaks,
such as extra bathroom breaks; 61
percent needed a change in schedule or
more time off; 53 percent needed a
change in duties; and 40 percent needed
some other type of workplace
adjustment.319 The Commission chose
the highest of these numbers (71
percent) as its upper bound estimate of
the percentage of pregnant employees
needing accommodations.
The Commission received a comment
stating that the report cited by the
Commission does not support the use of
71 percent as an upper bound estimate
of the percentage of pregnant
individuals needing an accommodation
because the report established that 71
percent of the pregnant individuals
surveyed needed additional breaks, but
did not state whether any of the other
29 percent of pregnant individuals
surveyed needed a different type of
accommodation (such as a change in
schedule or a change in duties). If so,
then more than 71 percent of pregnant
individuals surveyed needed at least
one accommodation.
The report the Commission relied
upon to set its upper and lower bound
estimates did not state whether any of
the 29 percent of individuals who did
not need additional breaks needed a
different sort of accommodation. It was
therefore not possible for the
Commission to determine, on the basis
of this report, the percentage of
employees surveyed who needed at
least one accommodation. The comment
objecting to the Commission’s use of the
71 percent estimate did not provide
additional data for the Commission to
consider, and the Commission could not
independently locate any more precise
information. The Commission therefore
must rely on reasonable assumptions to
set its upper bound estimate of the
percentage of pregnant employees
needing accommodation.
Although it is possible that some of
the 29 percent of pregnant individuals
who did not need additional breaks
needed a different type of
accommodation, the Commission
continues to assume for purposes of the
economic analysis that the individuals
who needed a different type of

316 Id. at 54757.
317 Lauren M. Rossen et al., U.S. Dep’t of Health
& Hum. Servs., Ctrs. for Disease Control &
Prevention, Nat’l Ctr. for Health Stat., Updated
Methodology to Estimate Overall and Unintended
Pregnancy Rates in the United States 15 (2023),
https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/124395.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

318 88 FR 54758.
319 Eugene R. Declercq et al., Listening to Mothers
III: New Mothers Speak Out 36 (2013), https://
www.nationalpartnership.org/our-work/resources/
health-care/maternity/listening-to-mothers-iii-newmothers-speak-out-2013.pdf.

PO 00000

Frm 00062

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

pregnancy-related accommodation are a
subset of those who needed additional
breaks. In the Commission’s opinion, it
is unlikely that a pregnant individual
who does not need additional breaks
would need a less common type of
accommodation such as a change in
schedule or a change in duties.
Additionally, many of the 71 percent of
pregnant individuals surveyed who
needed additional breaks may be
entitled to them under the ADA, Title
VII, or employer policies, and therefore
the 71 percent figure likely overstates
the number of individuals who will
receive those breaks specifically as a
consequence of the PWFA. The
Commission is therefore confident that
71 percent is a reasonable estimate of
the proportion of pregnant individuals
needing accommodation under the
PWFA given the paucity of data
available at the time of this rulemaking.
The same comment objected to the
Commission’s use of 23 percent as a
lower bound estimate of the percentage
of pregnant employees who will need an
accommodation under the rule. The
Commission relied on the same report
discussed immediately above to arrive
at this estimate. Based on data in this
report, the Commission calculated that
32 percent of pregnant individuals
surveyed needed, but did not receive,
more frequent breaks, such as extra
bathroom breaks; 20 percent needed, but
did not receive, a change in schedule or
more time off; 23 percent needed, but
did not receive, a change in duties; and
18 percent needed, but did not receive,
some other type of workplace
adjustment.320 The Commission
averaged these numbers to arrive at a
lower bound estimate of 23 percent.321
According to the comment, the
Commission’s calculations established
that at least 32 percent of pregnant
employees surveyed needed, but did not
receive, at least one pregnancy-related
accommodation (specifically, additional
breaks). The comment further argued
that the Commission failed to offer any
justification for the decision to average
the four figures.
The Commission agrees with the
comment that using the highest of the
four figures (32 percent) is the better
approach. As explained above, the
report establishes that 32 percent of
pregnant employees surveyed needed,
but did not receive, at least one type of
pregnancy-related accommodation. The
Commission therefore has raised its
lower bound estimate from 23 percent to
32 percent in the analysis below.
320 Id.
321 88 FR 54758.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Estimated Average Cost of
an Accommodation
As stated above, in its previous
analysis, the Commission estimated that
49.4 percent of needed pregnancyrelated accommodations will have no
cost, and that the average cost of the
remaining 50.6 percent will be $300
distributed over 5 years, or $60
annually.322
One comment stated that this estimate
was too low because it did not include
costs associated with having a vacant
position and with looking for new hires,
both of which may be necessary when
a pregnant employee takes leave. The
comment emphasized that these costs
affect both customers and other staff
members.
The Commission declines to raise the
estimated average cost of an
accommodation in response to this
comment. To estimate costs responsibly,
the Commission must rely on existing
data. According to the best available
data, the average cost of a non-zero-cost
reasonable accommodation provided
pursuant to the ADA is $300.323 Leave
is an accommodation that is available
under the ADA. The costs associated
with leave, including the kinds of costs
identified by the comment, were
therefore presumably included in the
data used to generate the $300 average.
Additionally, if an employer did not
provide leave to the employee and
simply terminated the employee, the
employer would still face the costs of
having a vacant position and looking for
new hires. To the extent that an
accommodation allows the pregnant
employee to stay with the employer, the
employer could realize cost savings
because it will not have to hire and train
new employees.324
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Alleged Additional Costs:
Abortion
Many comments stated that the
economic analysis should be revised to
incorporate not only costs arising from
the provision of abortion-related
reasonable accommodations, but also
the costs of abortions themselves
together with some of their alleged
downstream consequences.
Some comments suggested adding the
costs of abortions to the analysis
because they mistakenly understood the
proposed rule as requiring employers to
bear those costs. For example, some
comments stated that the proposed rule
required employers to pay for abortion
322 Id. at 54759.
323 Id.
324 Id. at 54754.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

services or to pay for associated travel
and lodging expenses as reasonable
accommodations. Because the proposed
rule did not, and the final rule does not,
require covered employers to bear these
costs, the Commission declines to
amend the economic analysis to
incorporate these costs to employers.
In most cases, however, comments
suggesting inclusion of abortion-related
costs identified costs that do not apply
directly to employers. For example,
some of these comments stated that the
estimated cost of the rule should be
increased by the value of the years of
life lost by the individuals who were
never born due to abortion. Others
stated that the estimated cost of the rule
should be revised to include health care
costs that the comments alleged would
be incurred by individuals who undergo
abortion care. Other comments stated
that the estimate should include certain
large-scale societal costs that they
linked to abortion. Several of these
comments cited a 2022 report by Joint
Economic Committee Republicans.325
The Commission declines to change
its analysis in response to these
comments. The alleged cost of abortion
and its downstream consequences
cannot properly be attributed to the
final rule and statute simply because
abortion-related accommodations are
available under the PWFA.326 Neither
the statute nor the final rule has an
impact on the costs that commenters
allege are associated with abortion.
Indeed, the comments themselves
appear to acknowledge that the
purported costs imposed by abortion are
independent of the rule.327
The Commission recognizes that,
under the statute and final rule, some
individuals will obtain reasonable
accommodations that they may not have
otherwise obtained, possibly including
leave as a reasonable accommodation
325 Joint Economic Committee Republicans, The
Economic Cost of Abortion (2022), https://
www.jec.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/b8807501210c-4554-9d72-31de4e939578/the-economic-costof-abortion.pdf.
326 Many of the comments stating that the
Commission should account for the cost of abortion
and its downstream consequences described the
rule as containing an ‘‘abortion mandate’’ or as
‘‘encouraging’’ abortion. This is a
mischaracterization of the rule. Rather than
requiring or encouraging abortion, this rule simply
requires employers to provide reasonable
accommodations to the known limitations of
employees under some circumstances.
327 The $6.9 trillion in annual abortion-related
costs identified by Joint Economic Committee
Republicans in their 2022 report, for example, were
said to have occurred in 2019—well before the
effective date of the statute or final rule. These costs
should therefore be considered part of the prestatutory baseline, rather than new costs
attributable specifically to the statute and final rule.

PO 00000

Frm 00063

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29157

related to an abortion.328 But it does not
follow that any of these individuals will
have abortions because they were able
to obtain an accommodation. It therefore
does not follow that the costs associated
with the abortions themselves should be
included in the economic analysis.
A small number of comments argued
that the proposed rule will increase the
number of abortions performed, and that
the economic analysis should include
costs associated specifically with this
increase. According to these comments,
to calculate the cost of the final rule, the
Commission must first determine the
proportional economic impact of a
single abortion and then multiply that
figure by the number of additional
abortions performed as a result of the
rule.
The Commission declines to take this
approach because the comments did not
provide any evidence, and the
Commission is not aware of such
evidence, to support the conclusion that
the number of abortions will increase as
a consequence of the statute and the
final rule.
A few comments asserted that the
number of abortions will increase
because the rule, by making abortionrelated accommodations available, will
make pregnant employees
‘‘uncomfortable’’ about bringing their
pregnancies to term. These commenters
did not provide support for this
proposition, however. Other comments
stated that the rule will increase the
number of abortions because some
employers may prefer that their
employees terminate their pregnancies
rather than bring their pregnancies to
term, and, therefore, these employers
may pressure their employees into
having abortions by refusing to provide
any pregnancy-related accommodations
other than leave to obtain an abortion.
This argument is unpersuasive because
such refusal would be unlawful under
the PWFA. An employer could not
satisfy its PWFA obligations by
providing leave to have an abortion to
an individual who requests additional
bathroom breaks due to pregnancy, for
example, because such leave would not
be an effective accommodation under
those circumstances. In addition, Title
VII prohibits employers from coercing
328 The Commission notes that it is possible that
the availability of abortion-related reasonable
accommodations—such as leave—may have
additional effects on the circumstances of an
abortion, for example by enabling the individual to
have the abortion at an earlier time; to elect a
different method of abortion; to have the abortion
at a nearby clinic instead of traveling to a more
distant clinic; or to have the abortion performed by
a reputable provider. The Commission was unable
to incorporate these cost savings into the
quantitative analysis, however, due to lack of data.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29158

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

employees into having abortions
because it prohibits them from taking an
adverse action against an individual
because of the individual’s decision to
have—or not to have—an abortion.329
Again, the Commission recognizes
that, under the statute and the final rule,
an employee who has decided to have
an abortion may request and receive an
abortion-related accommodation, absent
undue hardship. But it does not follow
from this fact alone that the individual
has decided to have the abortion
because of the rule. The assumption
implicit in comments—that some
employees will decide to have abortions
because the final rule and statute make
abortion-related accommodations
available—is speculative.330 Research
shows that individuals who are unable
to access abortion care typically are
unable to do so for multiple reasons,
none of which are determinative.331
Because the Commission is unaware of
any data showing specifically that
access to PWFA-type accommodations
will increase the number of abortions
performed, it declines to add the
associated costs to its analysis.332

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Alleged Additional Costs:
Litigation
Some comments stated that the rule
would increase costs for employers by
increasing litigation. Some of these
provided only a very brief justification
for the claim. Some comments, for
example, claimed that the rule would
increase litigation because it is
‘‘expansive’’ or because the range of
accommodations required is broad. One
comment stated that the rule is likely to
invite litigation because it is likely that
329 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 31, at (I)(A)(4)(c).
330 To support the assertion that the costs of an
abortion are attributable to the final rule and
statute, research would need to show that the
abortion-related accommodation provided under
the rule—in most cases leave—is a but-for cause of
the abortion, and that the individual does not have
independent access to the leave under a different
law or policy.
331 See, e.g., Jenna Jerman et al., Barriers to
Abortion Care and Their Consequences for Patients
Traveling for Services: Qualitative Findings From
Two States, 49 Persps. on Sexual & Reprod. Health
95, 98–99 (2017).
332 The Commission notes that, even if data could
be found showing that the final rule and statute will
increase the number of abortions that are
performed, the Commission would still need to
engage in considerable speculation in order to
estimate the associated costs. Although some
comments cited research purporting to measure
costs imposed by abortion on individuals who
undergo abortion care and on society as a whole,
the research did not establish a consensus on this
issue. See generally Ushma D. Upadhyay et al.,
Intended Pregnancy After Receiving Vs. Being
Denied a Wanted Abortion, 99 Contraception 42
(2019).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

a different Presidential administration
will change this policy. These
comments did not include data or cite
any supporting research.
One comment, signed by several
Attorneys General from States that have
PWFA-type statutes, supports the
opposite conclusion:
Nor have the PWFA-analogue States
experienced a marked increase in litigation
following enactment of their PWFA/Break
Time law analogues. In Washington State, all
but 2 of the 650 pregnancy accommodation
intakes received by the Attorney General’s
Office resolved without the need to file a
lawsuit. In New York State, which enacted its
PWFA analogue in 2016, the vast majority of
discrimination complaints filed with the
New York Division of Human Rights involve
allegations of employment discrimination,
yet complaints relating to reasonable
accommodations for pregnancy-related
conditions account for at most .03% of all
employment discrimination filings.
Moreover, 86% of the employment
discrimination cases that involve reasonable
accommodations for a pregnancy-related
condition resolve prior to an agency hearing.
The pre-hearing resolution numbers are
similar in Connecticut. In Oregon, only about
1.5% of cases filed with the Civil Rights
Division of the state’s Bureau of Labor and
Industries involve pregnancy or post-partum
accommodation issues, a good portion of
which are voluntarily resolved. . . . And in
Illinois, only 1% of charges filed with the
Department of Human Rights involved
pregnancy-related charges seeking an
accommodation. A study in California, which
enacted its state PWFA in 2000, showed the
total number of pregnancy discrimination
charges filed with the state human rights
agency actually decreased after the law was
enacted.333

The Commission also disagrees with
the claim that its definition of
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is expansive and
will increase litigation, or the
characterization of its definition as an
example of something that will lead to
litigation because another Presidential
administration will change it. As
explained in the preamble to the final
rule, ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is language from
Title VII, and the Commission’s
interpretation of that phrase in the
PWFA is consistent with how courts
and the Commission have interpreted
that phrase in Title VII. Moreover, the
interpretation of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ in the
PWFA is consistent with the
interpretation the Commission has had
in many different Presidential
administrations. Finally, given the longstanding definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
333 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98337, New York
State Attorney General, at 5 (Oct. 10, 2023).

PO 00000

Frm 00064

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

conditions’’ in Title VII, changing it for
the PWFA also would have the potential
to create litigation.
Some comments stated more
specifically that interpreting the term
‘‘related medical conditions’’ to include
abortion will cause litigation because
employers that comply by providing
abortion-related leave as a reasonable
accommodation may be found liable for
pregnancy discrimination. For example,
one comment stated that if an employer
provided an employee sufficient leave
to travel out of the State to have an
abortion but denied a request by a
pregnant employee who did not want an
abortion for the same amount of leave to
see an out-of-State obstetrician, instead
only providing an amount of leave
sufficient to visit an in-State
obstetrician, the employer could face a
claim that it is discriminating against
women who do not get abortions.
The Commission disagrees that
provision of abortion-related leave as a
reasonable accommodation could give
rise to liability for pregnancy
discrimination under the circumstances
described. First, if the employer is
providing the leave as a reasonable
accommodation, then it is not providing
either employee with ‘‘benefits.’’ Rather,
it is providing them with reasonable
accommodations to which they are
entitled under the law.
Second, the two kinds of leave are not
‘‘unequal.’’ With respect to both
individuals, the employer is providing
the amount of leave necessary to
address the individual’s known
pregnancy-related limitation. It is often
the case that the cash value of one
reasonable accommodation is less than
that of another. For example, if an
employer provides one pregnant
individual a reasonable accommodation
of drinking water because that is what
the individual needs, and provides a
second pregnant individual with a chair
to sit on because that is what the second
pregnant individual needs, the
employer is not discriminating against
the first individual just because a chair
costs more than permission to drink
water—both individuals have been
given reasonable accommodations
appropriate to their known pregnancyrelated limitations.
Because the comments discussed
above did not provide evidence to
support the conclusion that
promulgation of the rule will invite
increased litigation, the Commission
declines to incorporate litigation-related
costs into the final economic analysis.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Additional Costs: Male
Employees
Some comments stated that it was
unclear whether the rule entitled men to
pregnancy-related accommodations
(including, for example, male infertility
treatment), but that, if the rule entitled
men to such accommodations, these
costs should be reflected in the analysis.
The Commission declines to incorporate
these costs into the analysis because, as
explained in the preamble to the final
rule, the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ in the final rule only
encompasses medical conditions which
relate to pregnancy or childbirth, ‘‘as
applied to the specific employee or
applicant in question.’’

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Alleged Additional Costs:
Other Costs
One comment stated that the
Commission’s economic analysis should
account for costs arising from the loss of
free speech and free exercise rights. The
Commission does not agree that the
regulation creates such a loss and has
explained in the preamble to the final
rule why free speech and religious
exercise are not negatively affected by
and are, instead, protected by the rule.
A few comments stated that the
Commission should account for the
reduction in hiring of women based on
the ‘‘expansive’’ accommodation
requirements. The Commission does not
agree that this is a cost it should take
into account for the economic analysis.
First, discrimination against women
because they need an accommodation,
or may need an accommodation, under
the PWFA violates the PWFA and
potentially Title VII. Second, these
comments did not provide evidence
supporting the conclusion that
employers will hire fewer women as a
result of the rule and underlying law.
One comment stated that the
Commission’s economic analysis, which
did not consider accommodation costs
for States with their own PWFA-type
statutes, did not account for the fact that
these State statutes do not permit
accommodations for abortions. This
comment did not support this statement
with data or case law, and the
Commission was unable to find any
independent evidence of any such
restriction.334 Additionally, as noted in
334 Some comments stated more generally that the

impact analysis should account for the fact that
some State PWFA-type laws may not be identical
to the PWFA, and therefore that such States may
face slightly additional costs for reasonable
accommodations required by the PWFA but not by

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

the preamble to the final rule, an
employee may need an abortion for a
variety of reasons, which could affect
the ability of the employee to use the
State statute for an accommodation.
One comment stated that the
economic analysis should include costs
related to severance, retirement, and
labor shortages, and, additionally, that it
should include costs arising from the
decline in private firms’ participation in
the national economy. The Commission
declines to include these costs because
the comment provided no data
supporting a connection between
provision of pregnancy-related
reasonable accommodations, on the one
hand, and an employee’s decision to
leave the workforce or to decline to
participate in market activities, on the
other hand. The Commission further
notes that it received countervailing
comments on this issue, suggesting that
the rule will enable covered entities to
prevent individuals from leaving the
workforce by making pregnancy-related
accommodations available to those who
need them.
One comment stated that the
Commission should consider the
alternative of defining ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ to exclude abortion. As
explained in the final rule, the
Commission’s interpretation is
consistent with the PWFA’s text, and for
over 40 years, the Commission and
courts have interpreted the phrase
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ in Title VII to
include abortion. The Commission
concludes that it is unnecessary to
consider this alternative for the
economic analysis.
One comment stated that, in States
that have laws like the PWFA,
employees are more likely to ask for and
receive accommodations, and in States
where there are no PWFA-like laws,
employees are less likely to ask for or
receive accommodations; thus, those
who have not received accommodations
prior to the PWFA should be
overrepresented among those who now
have rights. The Commission based its
calculations on the data that is
available, and this comment did not
provide data to support this point or
dispute the Commission’s calculations.
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding the Time To Read the
Regulation
Several comments stated that the
Commission underestimated the time to
the pre-existing State law. These comments failed
to identify whether or how the interpretations of the
State law differ from the PWFA and to cite or
provide data that would support any changes.

PO 00000

Frm 00065

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29159

read and understand the regulation,
including stating that small businesses
without a legal staff would take a long
time to read and understand the rule;
that the amount of time for compliance
should be increased to account for time
to read and review the regulation, obtain
legal advice, develop a compliance
policy, train employees, and implement
the rule, including creating systems to
collect, retain, and secure protected
information; that a specific individual
took 2 days to read the regulation and
several of the comments; that the cost
should account for the hiring of outside
counsel; that the Commission should
include the cost of processing each
request for an accommodation; and that
the Commission should account for
costs to train new employees and for
new businesses in future years. Most of
these comments on this topic did not
provide either data or evidence to
support a revision by the Commission.
Those that did so provided estimates
that varied greatly, and none were
grounded in research.
The Commission has slightly
increased its estimate of the amount of
time allotted for compliance activities,
in part to account for the fact that the
final rule and Interpretive Guidance are
slightly longer, and therefore would take
slightly longer to read, than the
proposed rule and Interpretive
Guidance contained in the NPRM, and
in part in response to comments
indicating additional time is needed for
covered entities to become familiar with
the rule. The Commission estimates that
compliance activities for a covered
entity will take an average of 135
minutes, or 2.25 hours, in States that do
not already have laws substantially
similar to the PWFA and an average of
45 minutes in States with existing laws
similar to the PWFA. This estimate is
consistent with the amount of time the
Commission allotted for compliance
activities under other recent regulations
that it has published in connection with
civil rights laws. For example, in
publishing a regulation implementing
Title II of the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), the
Commission estimated 3 hours for rule
familiarization, which was appropriate
because GINA involved a new
protection against discrimination based
on genetic information.335 Conversely,
the Commission did not include a
calculation of the cost for rule
familiarization in its rule amending its
Age Discrimination in Employment Act
(ADEA) regulations concerning
disparate-impact claims and the
reasonable factors other than age
335 75 FR 68912, 68931 (Nov. 9, 2010).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29160

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

defense (RFOA) 336 or its rule
implementing the ADA Amendments
Act (ADAAA).337
Here, the Commission has calculated
compliance activities under the PWFA
regulation in light of the fact that the
PWFA is a new civil rights statute, but
employers covered by the PWFA
already are covered by Title VII and the
ADA. Presumably, these employers
already have standard procedures to
inform their employees and supervisors
about their rights and responsibilities
under Title VII, the ADA, and other
workplace laws. Given the similarities
between the PWFA and the ADA and
Title VII, employers will be able to use
many of their existing procedures and
include the PWFA in their training
regarding the ADA and Title VII.338
Further, the Commission offers training
and assistance specifically tailored to
small businesses.339 The Commission
does not anticipate that covered entities
will need legal advice; the PWFA and
the regulation draw on well-established
concepts and procedures from Title VII
and the ADA. For example, as under the
ADA, an employer does not have to
require supporting documentation to
provide a PWFA accommodation; if it
does, the documentation under the
PWFA, like under the ADA, must be
kept separate from the employee’s
personnel file. Thus, employers will be
able to use a compliance mechanism
they have already developed for the
ADA for the PWFA. Similarly,
employers can use the same human
resources staff they use to process
requests for accommodations under the
ADA or Title VII for such requests under
the PWFA. Accordingly, the
Commission does not anticipate that
covered employers will need time in
addition to the time provided in the
final rule.
Additionally, the Commission
received comments that stated that the
regulation would provide appropriate
guidance and would assist employers in
compliance, which would reduce
employer costs.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Summary of the Commission’s
Preliminary Economic Analysis of
Impacts: Nonquantifiable Benefits
In the NPRM, the Commission
identified five primary benefits of the
proposed rule and underlying statute
that are difficult to quantify: (1)
336 77 FR 19080, 19090–94 (Mar. 30, 2012).
337 76 FR 16978, 16994–95, 16999 (Mar. 25, 2011).
338 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 26–31
(discussing the similarities between the PWFA and
the ADA and the PWFA and Title VII).
339 EEOC, Small Business Resource Center,
https://www.eeoc.gov/employers/small-business
(last visited Mar. 25, 2024)

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

improvements in maternal and infant
health outcomes; (2) improvements in
pregnant employees’ economic security;
(3) non-discrimination and other
intrinsic benefits, such as the
enhancement of human dignity; (4)
clarity in enforcement and efficiencies
in litigation; and (5) benefits for covered
entities.340
Comments and Response to Comments
Regarding Non-Quantifiable Benefits
A number of comments agreed with
the identified benefits and provided
additional research or anecdotal
evidence to support the benefits.
Regarding improvements in maternal
and infant health outcomes, one
comment asserted that the rule will
have positive effects on pregnant
employees’ mental health, stating that
even perceived pregnancy
discrimination at work has been linked
to increased stress and symptoms of
postpartum depression.341 This
comment linked stress resulting from
workplace discrimination and
workplace conditions to increased risk
of preterm birth or low birth weight,
potentially resulting in serious health
problems at birth that may cause longterm health and developmental
consequences in children.342 Such
health challenges may result in
additional health care costs;
accordingly, reducing stress during
pregnancy also may reduce health care
costs.343 Other comments observed that,
because research shows that certain
workplace conditions, such as lengthy
periods of standing or walking, or high
risk of chemical exposure or noise, can
result in complications for a pregnant
employee and their baby,
accommodations to alleviate those
conditions improve health outcomes for
pregnant employees and their
children.344 Additionally, one comment
340 88 FR 54751–54.
341 See Kaylee J. Hackney et al., Examining the
Effects of Perceived Pregnancy Discrimination on
Mother and Baby Health, 106 J. Applied Psych. 774,
777, 781 (2021).
342 Id. at 778, 781; March of Dimes, Stress and
Pregnancy, https://www.marchofdimes.org/findsupport/topics/pregnancy/stress-and-pregnancy
(last visited Mar. 25, 2024); March of Dimes, LongTerm Health Effects of Preterm Birth (Oct. 2019),
https://www.marchofdimes.org/find-support/topics/
birth/long-term-health-effects-premature-birth.
343 March of Dimes, Premature Birth: The
Financial Impact on Business (2013), https://
onprem.marchofdimes.org/materials/prematurebirth-the-financial-impact-on-business.pdf.
344 See generally Frincy Francis et al., Ergonomic
Stressors Among Pregnant Healthcare Workers, 21
Sultan Qaboos Univ. Med. J. 172 (2021), https://
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8219330
(describing ergonomic stressors and pregnancy
outcomes); see also Louisville Dep’t of Pub. Health
& Wellness, Pregnant Workers Health Impact
Assessment 17–19, 23 (2019) [hereinafter Pregnant

PO 00000

Frm 00066

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

cited a source that drew from a study
that found that, overall, employment
during pregnancy is associated with a
reduction in the risk of preterm birth,
which supports the need to keep
pregnant employees in the workforce.345
Other comments provided anecdotal
evidence that employees who received
accommodations under the PWFA felt
secure in their employment and thus
better able to focus on their new babies’
needs.
Regarding improvements in pregnant
employees’ economic security, several
comments underscored that many
American workers lack a financial
cushion and that the proposed rule and
underlying law will mitigate short- and
long-term negative financial
consequences associated with losing a
job at a critical time, given increased
costs due to childbirth, child rearing,
and childcare.346 At least one comment
observed that women of color and
Native women are overrepresented in
low-paid jobs with few benefits, and
that providing accommodations that can
help employees stay in the workforce is
critical to promoting economic
security.347
Regarding non-discrimination and
other intrinsic benefits, several
comments confirmed that nondiscrimination and other intrinsic
benefits result from the proposed rule
and underlying law. For example, one
comment stated that the underlying law
gives pregnant employees ‘‘a strong
sense of dignity and belonging in the
workforce,’’ reduces stigma and
stereotyping regarding pregnancy, and
Workers Health Impact Assessment], https://
louisvilleky.gov/center-health-equity/document/
pregnant-workers-hia-final-02182019pdf
(identifying workplace conditions that may impact
the health of a pregnant worker and their child and
basic accommodations to alleviate those conditions
to improve health outcomes).
345 Pregnant Workers Health Impact Assessment,
supra note 344, at 16–17 (citing a study finding
that, overall, employment during pregnancy is
associated with a reduction in risk of preterm birth,
although certain types of jobs or environments may
increase the risk of preterm birth).
346 See, e.g., Lane Gillespie, Bankrate, Bankrate’s
2023 Annual Emergency Savings Report (June 22,
2023), https://www.bankrate.com/banking/savings/
emergency-savings-report/ (finding that 48 percent
of Americans have enough emergency savings to
cover 3 months of expenses); Matthew Rae et al.,
KFF, Health Costs Associated with Pregnancy,
Childbirth, and Postpartum Care (July 13, 2022),
https://www.kff.org/health-costs/issue-brief/healthcosts-associated-with-pregnancy-childbirth-andpostpartum-care/ (noting that the average health
care costs associated with ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
and post-partum care’’ total $18,865, and the
average out-of-pocket cost is $2,854).
347 See Jasmine Tucker & Julie Vogtman, Nat’l
Women’s Law Ctr., Hard Work Is Not Enough:
Women in Low-Paid Jobs 15 (2023), https://
nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/
%C6%92.NWLC_Reports_HardWorkNotEnough_
LowPaid_2023.pdf.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
reestablishes pregnancy as an ordinary
part of employment. One comment cited
a source that stated, ‘‘The reasonable
accommodation framework relieves
individual employees of the burden of
proving animus: of showing that an
employer’s inflexible imposition of
workplace standards reflects sex
stereotyping that flows from the
invidious assumption that pregnant
workers are not competent or committed
workers.’’ 348 Several comments
provided anecdotal accounts of the
sense of dignity that receiving
pregnancy-related accommodations
under the PWFA has given individual
employees. Another comment noted
that the proposed rule and underlying
law will reduce incidents in which
pregnant employees experienced
humiliation at the hands of supervisors
who denied accommodations and
singled out pregnant employees for
negative treatment.
Regarding clarity in enforcement and
efficiencies in litigation, multiple
comments confirmed that the proposed
rule would provide clarity regarding
employees’ rights and employers’
obligations under the PWFA. One
comment stated that the NPRM explains
the PWFA in an understandable and
accessible way. One comment from a
nonprofit observed that ‘‘dozens and
dozens’’ of low-wage employees had
informed them of the ‘‘transformative’’
effect of the law in their lives; some
employees reported that their employers
had previously denied or ignored their
requests for accommodation but granted
them after the PWFA became
effective.349 At the same time, this
nonprofit noted that many employees,
particularly low-wage women of color,
are still denied their rights under the
PWFA, demonstrating the need for a
clear and comprehensive rule. Finally,
as previously noted, the comment from
several State Attorneys General
observed that States that had enacted
laws protecting pregnant employees in
the workplace did not experience a
marked increase in litigation following
the law’s enactment, and the vast
majority of complaints resolve prior to
administrative proceedings or
litigation.350
Regarding benefits for covered
entities, some comments stated that
employers benefit from retaining
pregnant employees because searching
for and training new employees results
in costs and stress on an organization,
348 Reva B. Siegel, The Pregnant Citizen, from
Suffrage to the Present, 108 Georgetown L.J. 167,
220–26 (2020).
349 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98298, A Better
Balance, at 7 (Oct. 10, 2023).
350 See supra note 333.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

which can, in turn, negatively affect
customers and other employees. Several
comments highlighted that laws like the
PWFA enable businesses to retain
valuable employees, improve
productivity and morale, reduce
workers’ compensation costs and
absenteeism, and improve company
diversity, and stated that the proposed
rule would have the same effects. One
comment observed that, for small
businesses struggling with worker
shortages and seeking to incentivize
employee retention, the proposed rule
could facilitate incentivizing worker
retention.
One comment asserted that the rule
would benefit employees in industries
that are traditionally male dominated,
such as manufacturing and the trades,
and are physically demanding. The
comment stated that providing
pregnancy-related accommodations will
reduce occupational segregation by
gender, which in turn may affect the pay
gap. Although this logically may be a
possible benefit, the sources cited did
not directly support this proposition.
The Commission thus declines to
include this as a benefit of the final rule.
The Commission received a few
comments asserting that certain factors
offset the non-quantifiable benefits
identified by the Commission. One
comment stated that in its discussion of
the benefits to civil rights, the
Commission must account for the harm
done to the civil rights of religious
employers that may have to provide
accommodations that conflict with their
religious beliefs. The Commission does
not agree with this comment; as
discussed in the preamble to the final
rule, several defenses are available to
religious employers.
The Commission also received several
comments stating that the proposed rule
would create harm to women and
families because of its inclusion of
abortion in the definition of ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’ As set out in the economic
analysis and the preamble to the final
rule, the rule does not require anyone to
have an abortion or force employers to
pay for abortions. Further, as set out in
the response to comments on the
quantitative analysis above, there is no
evidence that the rule will increase the
number of abortions. The Commission
does not agree that the considerations
raised in these comments should be
included here.
The Commission concludes that the
benefits articulated in the NPRM are
attributable to the rule and the
Commission incorporates supplemental
evidence of each benefit, as described
above, into the final rule.

PO 00000

Frm 00067

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29161

Regulatory Flexibility Act and
Executive Order 13272 (Proper
Consideration of Small Entities in
Agency Rulemaking)
Summary of the Commission’s
Certification That the Rule Will Not
Have a Significant Economic Impact on
a Substantial Number of Small Entities
In the NPRM, the Commission
certified that the rule will not have a
significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities.351
The Commission reasoned that,
although the rule would apply to all
small entities with 15 or more
employees, and therefore would affect a
‘‘substantial’’ number of small entities,
it would not have a ‘‘significant
economic impact’’ on a substantial
number of small entities.
To justify its decision to certify in the
final rule, the Commission again began
its analysis by assuming that the rule
will impose two quantifiable costs on
small entities: the annual cost of
providing pregnancy-related reasonable
accommodations as a result of the
statute and the rule, and the one-time
cost of becoming familiar with the rule.
To estimate the one-time cost of
becoming familiar with the rule, based
on the analysis detailed in the Initial
Regulatory Impact Analysis (IRIA), the
Commission estimated that small
entities in States and localities that have
laws substantially similar to the PWFA
will be limited to a one-time
administrative cost of approximately
$56.76, and that small entities that are
not already subject to State or local laws
substantially similar to the PWFA will
face a one-time administrative cost of
approximately $170.27.
To estimate the annual cost of
accommodation required by the rule,
consistent with the IRIA, in the NPRM
the Commission assumed that the
number of individuals seeking
accommodations will be approximately
equal to the number of individuals who
actually become pregnant during that
year; that 33 percent of the employees
within each small entity are capable of
becoming pregnant, and that, of these,
4.7 percent will actually become
pregnant in a given year; that between
23 and 71 percent of pregnant
individuals within each small entity
will need an accommodation; that 49.4
percent of such accommodations will
have no cost; and that the average cost
of the remaining 50.6 percent of needed
accommodations will be $300
distributed over 5 years, or $60
351 88 FR 54764. The Commission’s analysis
under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, summarized
here, is available at 88 FR 54764–65.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29162

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

annually. Using these figures, it
generated the following cost estimates
for small entities of various sizes: 352

generated the following cost estimates
for small entities of various sizes: 352

Table 13 (from the NPRM): Annual Costs for Reasonable Accommodations for Small Businesses Based on
Size
Needing
50.6% Non-Zero-Cost Total Expected Cost:
~umber of ~3%
14.7%
!Pregnant in a Accommodations: 23%
Accommodations:
Lower Bound Estimate
!Employees ~omen
Given Year (Lower Bound Estimate) - Lower Bound Estimate ~ Higher Bound
ki\ged
71 % (Upper Bound
- Higher Bound
16-50
!Estimate
Estimate)
Estimate (Rounded
Up)
0.054 - 0.165
15
14.95
0.233
1
$60

50

16.5

0.7755

0.178-0.55

1

$60

100

33

1.551

0.357 - 1.01

1

$60

150

149.5

tl.326

0.535 - 1.652

1

$60

1200

66

3.102

0.713 -2.202

1-2

$60-$120

1250

82.5

3.878

0.892-2.75

1-2

$60-$120

500

165

7.755

1.78 - 5.5

1-3

$60-$180

r?50

1247.5

11.633

2.676 - 8.259

2-5

$120-$300

2-6

$120-$360

1000

030

15.51

3.567 - 11.012

1250

1412.5

19.388

4.459 - 13.765

3-7

$180-$420

1500

1495

123.265

5.351-16.518

3-9

$180-$540

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Revisions in Response to Comments
That Addressed Both the IRIA and the
Commission’s Justification for Certifying
Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act
(RFA)
As detailed in the discussion of the
Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) above,
in response to comments the
Commission made adjustments to its
estimate of the percentage of individuals
capable of becoming pregnant who
actually become pregnant during a given
year (revised upward from 4.7 percent
to 7.1 percent), and to its lower bound

estimate of the percentage of pregnant
individuals who will need a reasonable
accommodation (revised upward from
23 percent to 32 percent). The
Commission also increased the amount
of time it estimated employers would
need to familiarize themselves with the
rule. Because the Commission’s analysis
under the Regulatory Flexibility Act
(RFA) relied on these same estimates,
the Commission has made conforming
changes below.
Comments and Response to Comments
Pertaining Specifically to Small Entities
In addition to the comments that
apply both to the RIA and the analysis
under the RFA, the Commission
received some comments specifically
addressing the rule’s effect on small
entities.
Many comments made general
statements about the rule’s effect on
small businesses, without addressing
specific aspects of the reasoning offered
by the Commission in support of its
decision to certify.
Some comments stated generally that
small entities will have difficulty
complying with the rule. A few of these
emphasized that small entities may have
especial difficulty reading and
understanding the rule or hiring

personnel to cover for pregnant
employees who take leave as a
reasonable accommodation. Some
asserted that small entities will hire
fewer women in anticipation of added
costs arising from the need to provide
accommodations.
Other comments stated broadly that
the rule will be beneficial to small
entities. One such comment noted that
many States have laws similar to the
PWFA with thresholds even lower than
15 employees; that, in those States, even
smaller employers must provide
reasonable accommodations absent
undue hardship; that providing for
accommodations may allow employers
to keep employees and thus reduce
costs for replacement and retraining;
that the PWFA will encourage pregnant
employees to stay in the workforce,
thereby supporting small businesses;
and that in States with PWFA-type
statutes, increased costs or adverse
economic outcomes either have not
been reported or have been so
insignificant that they are not easily
measurable, likely because the required
accommodations tend to be low-cost or
no-cost.
On balance, the Commission
concludes that the comments discussed
above do not provide it with sufficient

352 Id. at 54764–65.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00068

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.086</GPH>

Because entities that are already
subject to laws substantially similar to
the PWFA are already required to
provide accommodations consistent
with the PWFA, their total costs were
estimated to be the one-time cost of
$56.75.
Total costs for entities that are not
already subject to laws substantially
similar to the PWFA were estimated to
be the annual cost of providing
reasonable accommodations as detailed
in Table 13 in the NPRM (between $60
for businesses with 15 employees and
$540 for businesses with 1,500
employees), plus $170.27 (the cost of
becoming familiar with the rule) in the
first year.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
reason to withdraw its earlier decision
to certify that the rule will not have a
significant economic effect on a
substantial number of small entities. As
detailed above, these comments were
not uniformly in favor of withdrawal.
Further, the comments stating generally
that small entities will have difficulty
complying with the rule did not provide
data in support of those claims. The
Commission also observes that these
comments generally appear to overlook
the fact that, if a particular reasonable
accommodation would impose undue
hardship on the employer, neither the
PWFA nor the rule require the employer
to provide it. To the extent that the
above comments predict that the rule
will cause small employers to hire fewer
women, the Commission notes that such
action is independently unlawful
pursuant to Title VII’s prohibition
against refusal to hire women because
they may become pregnant.353
Some comments addressed the
Commission’s reasoning more directly.
One comment stated that the
Commission should retract its
certification because over 10 percent of
the 33 million small businesses in the
United States will be required to comply
with the rule. This comment
misrepresents the Commission’s reason
for certifying. As explained above, in
the NPRM the Commission agreed that
the rule will affect a ‘‘substantial’’
number of small entities but concluded
that the economic impact on such
entities would, in almost all cases, fail
to be ‘‘significant.’’ 354 The Commission
thus declines to retract its certification
in response to this comment.
One comment stated that, in
estimating the cost of accommodations
on small entities, the Commission
should not have relied on the average
cost for such accommodations, but
rather should have focused on ‘‘budgetbusting’’ accommodations that would be
especially difficult for small entities to
handle. This comment did not cite data
establishing how much an
accommodation would need to cost in
order to qualify as ‘‘budget-busting’’ for
small entities of a given size, what sorts
of pregnancy-related accommodations
were likely to reach that threshold, or
how often such an accommodation is
likely to be needed. Further, the
comment did not account for the fact
that the PWFA does not require
employers to provide reasonable
accommodations that would impose
undue hardship; presumably the
‘‘budget-busting’’ accommodations
would be likely to meet this standard.
353 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
354 88 FR 54764.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

One comment objected to the
Commission’s method of determining
whether a given entity meets the 15employee threshold for coverage under
the PWFA. Specifically, the comment
objected to the fact that the Commission
counts temporary or seasonal employees
toward this total under some
circumstances. The Commission
declines to change its method for
determining whether an entity has 15
employees in response to this comment.
The same method has been used
consistently for decades under all of the
statutes enforced by the EEOC and has
been endorsed by the Supreme Court.355
One comment objected to the
Commission’s decision to distribute the
average cost of a non-zero-cost
accommodation ($300) over 5 years for
purposes of the RFA analysis. The
Commission distributed the costs over 5
years under the assumption that most
accommodations with a cost will
involve purchase of durable goods with
a life of 5 years.356 The Commission
made this same assumption when it
estimated the costs arising from the
provision of additional reasonable
accommodations as a result of the
ADAAA.357 The comment stated that
small employers generally will have no
use for these durable goods after they
are used by the original requester. The
comment provided no data to support
this assertion. Further, the comment did
not identify a reason why the
Commission’s estimate of average
accommodation costs under the PWFA
should differ from its estimate of the
same under the ADA. The Commission,
therefore, declines to amend its analysis
in response to the comment.
Some comments objected to the
Commission’s method of estimating the
percentage of employees within a given
small entity who actually become
pregnant in a given year. Although the
Commission’s estimate may be accurate
for small entities in certain industries,
these comments argued, they may not be
accurate for small entities operating in
industries that employ
disproportionately high numbers of
women. One comment identified
‘‘education and health; leisure and
hospitality; and retail and wholesale
trade’’ as industries that employ
disproportionately high numbers of
women. The comment offered the
hypothetical situation of a preschool
with 25 employees, 20 of whom are
women of reproductive age. The
comment concluded that the preschool
355 See generally Walters v. Metro. Educ. Enters.,
Inc., 519 U.S. 202 (1997).
356 88 FR 54759.
357 76 FR 16977, 16994 (Mar. 25, 2011).

PO 00000

Frm 00069

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29163

likely will have continuous costs
imposed by the proposed rule, even
though it has just 25 employees.
The Commission is unpersuaded that
it should retract its certification that the
rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities in response to
these comments. In the Commission’s
view, they overestimate the costs that
will be experienced in industries with
disproportionately high numbers of
women employees. Consider the
example discussed above in which a
business employs 25 employees, 20 of
whom are capable of becoming
pregnant. To generate a lower bound
estimate of the number of expected nonzero-cost accommodations per year in
the example, the Commission calculates
as follows: 20 × 0.071 × 0.32 × 0.506 =
0.22 individuals per year are likely to
need a non-zero-cost pregnancy-related
reasonable accommodation, roughly
equivalent to one individual every 5
years.358 To generate an upper bound
estimate: 20 × 0.071 × 0.71 × 0.506 =
0.52 individuals per year are likely to
need a non-zero-cost pregnancy-related
accommodation, roughly equivalent to
one individual every 2 years. As
discussed above, these costs are not
expected to be high—the expected
annual cost per accommodation is
estimated to be $60 per year. Thus,
rather than imposing ‘‘continuous’’ high
costs, businesses like the one in the
example should only expect to provide
one relatively low-cost accommodation
every 2 to 5 years.359 Additionally, even
358 The estimate was calculated by multiplying
the number of individuals in the business who are
capable of becoming pregnant (20) by (a) 7.1
percent, to account for the fact that only some
individuals who are capable of becoming pregnant
will actually become pregnant in a given year; (b)
32 percent, to account for the fact that only some
pregnant individuals will need accommodation;
and (c) 50.6 percent, to account for the fact that
only some needed accommodations will have a
cost. For a detailed discussion of these calculations,
see the Costs section in the Final Regulatory Impact
Analysis below.
359 Further, the Commission has been given no
reason to believe that the example offered in the
comment and discussed here is representative of
any real industry. The percentage of employees
capable of becoming pregnant in the example is 20
÷ 25 = 80 percent—roughly 2.5 times as high as the
33 percent national average. Additionally, the
business in the example had only 25 employees.
The comment failed to provide any data
establishing the existence of any industry that has
a ‘‘substantial’’ number of entities that have so few
employees and that employs women at such a
disproportionately high rate. The example is of an
entity in the education industry. The Small
Business Administration does not define the
meaning of ‘‘small entity’’ for any of the educationrelated industries in terms of a number of
employees. See 13 CFR 121.210. It defines ‘‘small
entity’’ in the elementary and secondary school
industry to be an entity that has $20 million or less

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29164

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

if a substantial number of small entities
in a particular industry were to face
‘‘continuous’’ costs as a result of the
rule—as demonstrated by the
calculations above, a highly unlikely
occurrence—it would not follow that
such costs would be ‘‘economically
significant.’’
For the reasons discussed above, the
Commission has determined that the
comments it received regarding
occupational segregation do not require
it to retract its certification that the rule
will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small
entities, or to revise its justification for
certifying.
Final Economic Analysis
Executive Orders 12866 (Regulatory
Planning and Review), 13563
(Improving Regulation and Regulatory
Review), and 14094 (Modernizing
Regulatory Review)

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Introduction
The final rule has been drafted and
reviewed in accordance with Executive
Order (E.O.) 12866. The rule and the
Interpretive Guidance are intended to
add to the predictability and
consistency of executive enforcement of
the PWFA and to provide covered
entities and employees with information
regarding their rights and
responsibilities. The rule is required
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5. The
Final Regulatory Impact Analysis
estimates the cost of the rule to be
between $466.71 million and $484.71
million in the first year, and between
$14.82 and $32.82 million annually
thereafter. It estimates that the benefits
will be significant. While those benefits
cannot be fully quantified and
monetized, the Commission concludes
that, consistent with E.O. 13563, the
benefits (qualitative and quantitative)
will justify the costs. The Commission
notes that the rule and underlying
statute create many important benefits
that, in the words of E.O. 13563, stem
from ‘‘values that are difficult or
impossible to quantify’’ including
‘‘equity, human dignity, fairness and
distributive impacts.’’ Additionally,
because the rule provides employees
who are affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
with reasonable accommodations that
enable them to continue working, the
benefits of the rule include increased
productivity. These benefits cannot be
quantified at this time, however.
in annual receipts, id., but the Commission was
unable to determine the percentage of elementary
or secondary schools with $20 million or less in
annual receipts that have 25 or fewer employees.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Summary
As detailed in the Final Regulatory
Impact Analysis (FRIA) section below,
the final rule and underlying statute are
expected to provide numerous
unquantifiable benefits to qualified
employees and applicants with known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, especially in
States that currently do not have laws
substantially similar to the PWFA. It
will also benefit covered entities, the
U.S. economy, and society as a whole.
These unquantifiable benefits include
improved maternal and infant health;
improved economic security for
pregnant employees; increased equity,
human dignity, and fairness; improved
clarity of enforcement standards and
efficiencies in litigation; and decreased
costs related to employee turnover for
covered entities.
The quantitative section in the FRIA
below provides estimates of the two
main expected costs associated with the
rule and underlying statute: (a) annual
costs associated with providing
reasonable accommodations to qualified
applicants and employees with known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions by
employers in States that do not
currently have such a requirement, and
(b) one-time administrative costs for
covered entities, which include
becoming familiar with the rule, posting
new equal employment opportunity
(EEO) posters,360 and updating EEO
policies and handbooks. The
Commission expresses the quantifiable
impacts in 2022 dollars and uses
discount rates of 3 and 7 percent
pursuant to OMB Circular A–4.
The analysis concludes that
approximately 49.4 percent of the
reasonable accommodations that will be
required by the rule and underlying
statute will have no cost to covered
entities, and that the average annual
cost for the remaining 50.6 percent of
such accommodations is approximately
$60 per year per accommodation.
Taking into account that many entities
covered by the PWFA are already
required to provide such
accommodations under State and local
laws, the total impact on the U.S.
economy to provide reasonable
accommodations under the rule and
underlying statute is estimated to be
360 The Commission posted an updated poster on
its website concurrent with the PWFA’s effective
date of June 27, 2023. See EEOC, ‘‘Know Your
Rights: Workplace Discrimination is Illegal’’ Poster,
https://www.eeoc.gov/poster (last visited Mar. 25,
2024).

PO 00000

Frm 00070

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

between $14.82 million and $32.82
million per year.
The estimated one-time costs
associated with administrative tasks are
quite low on a per-establishment basis—
between $57.02 and $255.40, depending
on the State and on the type of
employer. Despite the low perestablishment cost, the proposed rule is
a ‘‘significant regulatory action’’ under
section 3(f)(1) of E.O. 12866, as
amended by E.O. 14094, because the
number of regulated entities—hence the
number of entities expected to incur
one-time administrative costs—is
extremely large (including all public
and private employers with 15 or more
employees and the Federal
Government). As a result, the
Commission has concluded that the
overall cost to the U.S. economy will be
in excess of $200 million.361
Final Regulatory Impact Analysis
(FRIA)
The Need for Regulatory Action
The PWFA and the final rule respond
to the previously limited availability of
accommodations for employees affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions under Federal law.
Although Title VII (as amended by the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA))
provided some protections for
employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth or related medical conditions,
court decisions regarding the ability of
employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to obtain workplace accommodations
created ‘‘unworkable’’ standards that
did not adequately protect pregnant
employees.362 Similarly, prior to the
PWFA, some pregnant employees could
obtain protections under the ADA, but
these were limited.363 Pregnant
employees who could not obtain
accommodations risked their economic
security, which had harmful effects for
361 The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) did
not review the PWFA for intergovernmental or
private-sector mandates because ‘‘[s]ection 4 of the
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act excludes from the
application of that act any legislative provision that
would establish or enforce statutory rights
prohibiting discrimination,’’ and CBO ‘‘determined
that the bill falls within that exclusion because it
would extend protections against discrimination in
the workplace based on sex to employees requesting
reasonable accommodations for pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions.’’ H.R.
Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 41.
362 Id. at 14–16 (describing court rulings under
Title VII and the Supreme Court’s decision in
Young, 575 U.S. 206); see 88 FR 54714–16.
363 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 19–21
(describing court decisions under the ADA that
failed to find coverage for employees with
pregnancy-related disabilities).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
themselves and their families.364
Furthermore, the loss of a job can affect
a pregnant employee’s economic
security for decades, as they lose out on
‘‘retirement contributions . . . shortterm disability benefits, seniority,
pensions, social security contributions,
life insurance, and more.’’ 365
Additionally, the lack of workplace
accommodations can harm the health of
the employee and their pregnancy.366
While numerous States have laws that
provide for accommodations for
pregnant employees, the lack of a
national standard prior to passage of the
PWFA meant that employees’ rights
varied depending on the State in which
they lived, some of which left
employees completely unprotected.367
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a)
provides that ‘‘[n]ot later than 1 year
after [the date of enactment of the Act],
the Commission shall issue regulations
in an accessible format in accordance
with subchapter II of chapter 5 of title
5 [of the United States Code] to carry
out this chapter. Such regulations shall
provide examples of reasonable
accommodations addressing known
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’
Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a), the
EEOC is issuing this rule following the
procedures codified at 5 U.S.C. 553(b).

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Baseline
The PWFA is a new law that requires
covered entities to provide reasonable
accommodations to the known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions of qualified
employees. As set out in the NPRM,368
the PWFA seeks to fill gaps in the
Federal and State legal landscape
regarding protections for employees
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.
Employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
have certain rights under existing civil
rights laws, such as Title VII, the ADA,
the Family and Medical Leave Act of
364 Id. at 22 (‘‘When pregnant workers are not
provided reasonable accommodations on the job,
they are oftentimes forced to choose between
economic security and their health or the health of
their babies.’’); id. at 24 (noting that ‘‘families
increasingly rely on pregnant workers’ incomes.’’).
365 Id. at 25.
366 Id. at 22 (‘‘According to the American College
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG),
providing reasonable accommodations to pregnant
workers is critical for the health of women and their
children.’’); id. (describing how a lack of an
accommodation led to a miscarriage for a worker).
367 See infra Table 1 for a calculation of the
number of employees who live in States without
PWFA-analogue laws.
368 88 FR 54714–15.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

1993, 29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. (FMLA), the
Providing Urgent Maternal Protections
for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act),
and various State and local laws.369
Under Title VII, an employee affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions may be able to
obtain a workplace modification to
allow them to continue to work.370
Typically courts have only found in
favor of such claims if the employee can
identify another individual similar in
their ability or inability to work who
received such an accommodation, or if
there is some direct evidence of
disparate treatment (such as a biased
comment or a policy that, on its face,
excludes pregnant employees).
However, there may not always be
similarly situated employees. For this
reason, some pregnant employees have
not received simple, common-sense
accommodations, such as a stool for a
cashier 371 or bathroom breaks for a
preschool teacher.372 And even when
the pregnant employee can identify
other employees who are similar in their
ability or inability to work, some courts
still have not found a Title VII
violation.373
Under the ADA, certain employees
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions may have the
right to accommodations if they have an
‘‘actual’’ or ‘‘record of’’ ADA disability;
369 For a list of State laws, see infra Table 1. In
addition, Federal laws regarding Federal funding
such as Title IX of the Education Amendments of
1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq., and the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act, 29 U.S.C.
3248(a)(2), provide protection from sex
discrimination, including discrimination based on
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
370 As relevant here, Title VII protects employees
from discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions ‘‘with
respect to . . . compensation, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment[ ] because of such
individual’s . . . sex.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1).
Discrimination because of sex includes
discrimination based on ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
Title VII also provides that ‘‘women affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
shall be treated the same for all employment-related
purposes, including receipt of benefits under fringe
benefit programs, as other persons not so affected
but similar in their ability or inability to work.’’ Id.
371 See, e.g., Portillo v. IL Creations Inc., No. 1:17–
cv–01083, 2019 WL 1440129, at *5 (D.D.C. Mar. 31,
2019).
372 See, e.g., Wadley v. Kiddie Acad. Int’l, Inc.,
No. 2:17–CV–05745, 2018 WL 3035785, at *4 (E.D.
Pa. June 19, 2018).
373 See, e.g., Wal-Mart Stores E., 46 F.4th at 597–
99 (concluding that the employer did not engage in
discrimination when it failed to accommodate
pregnant employees with light duty assignments,
even though the employer provided light duty
assignments for employees who were injured on the
job); but see, e.g., Legg, 820 F.3d at 69, 75–77
(vacating judgment for the employer where officers
injured on the job were entitled to light duty but
pregnant employees were not).

PO 00000

Frm 00071

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29165

this standard does not include
pregnancy itself but includes a
pregnancy-related disability.374
Under the FMLA, covered employees
can receive up to 12 weeks of jobprotected unpaid leave for, among other
things, a serious health condition, the
birth of a child, and bonding with a
newborn within 1 year of birth.375
However, employees must work for an
employer with 50 or more employees
within 75 miles of their worksite and
meet certain tenure requirements in
order to be entitled to FMLA leave.376
Survey data from 2018 show that only
56 percent of employees are eligible for
FMLA leave.377 Further, the FMLA only
provides unpaid leave—it does not
require reasonable accommodations that
would allow employees to stay on the
job and continue to be paid.
The PUMP Act requires employers
who are covered by the Fair Labor
Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.
(FLSA), to provide reasonable break
time for an employee to express breast
milk for their nursing child each time
such employee has need to express milk
for 1 year after the child’s birth. The
PUMP Act also requires employers to
provide a place to pump at work, other
than a bathroom, that is shielded from
view and free from intrusion from
coworkers and the public.378
As set out in Table 1, 30 States
currently have laws similar to the
PWFA that provide for accommodations
for pregnant employees. In most States,
again as set out in Table 1, the State
laws cover the same employers that are
covered by the PWFA. Employees in the
remaining States and Federal
Government employees have the rights
set out in the Federal laws described
above and, until the passage of the
PWFA, did not have the protections of
a law like the PWFA.
In addition to the protections
provided by the above laws, the Federal
Government provides 12 weeks of paid
parental leave to eligible Federal
employees upon the birth of a new
child.379
374 42 U.S.C. 12102(2), (4); 29 CFR part 1630,
appendix 1630(h); Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 31, at (II).
375 29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1); 29 CFR 825.120.
376 29 U.S.C. 2611(2)(A), (B).
377 Scott Brown et al., Employee and Worksite
Perspectives of the Family and Medical Leave Act:
Executive Summary for Results from the 2018
Surveys 3 (2020), https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/
files/OASP/evaluation/pdf/WHD_
FMLA2018SurveyResults_ExecutiveSummary_
Aug2020.pdf.
378 U.S. Dep’t of Lab., FLSA Protections to Pump
at Work, https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/pumpat-work (last visited Mar. 25, 2024).
379 Federal Employee Paid Leave Act, Public Law
116–92, 133 Stat. 1198, 2304–09 (2019).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29166

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Nonquantifiable Benefits
The final rule and the underlying
statute create many important benefits
that stem from ‘‘values that are difficult
or impossible to quantify,’’ including
‘‘equity, human dignity, [and]
fairness.’’ 380 These benefits are the
marginal increase in those values
beyond the protections provided in the
laws outlined above. The Commission
has identified five primary benefits of
the rule and underlying statute. The
Commission did not quantify each of
the following benefits that are expected
to result from the PWFA and its
implementing regulation, however,
because it did not identify sufficient
data to quantify these benefits.381
Improvements in Health for Pregnant
Employees and Their Babies
Congress enacted the PWFA in large
part to improve maternal and infant
health outcomes. The legislative history
emphasizes that the new law was
needed because ‘‘[n]o worker should
have to choose between their health, the
health of their pregnancy, and the
ability to earn a living.’’ 382 Congress
further concluded that ‘‘providing
reasonable accommodations to pregnant
workers is critical to the health of
women and their children.’’ 383 The
need to improve health outcomes
surrounding pregnancy is critical—as a
recent report noted, ‘‘women in our
country are dying at a higher rate from
pregnancy-related causes than in any
other developed nation.’’ 384
Additionally, ‘‘Black women are more
than three times as likely as White
women to die from pregnancy-related
causes, while American Indian/Alaska
Native [women] are more than twice as
likely,’’ 385 and a recent study shows
that negative health outcomes during
pregnancy disproportionately affect
Black women compared to White
women regardless of wealth.386

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

380 76 FR 3821 (Jan. 21, 2011).
381 Where relevant, the Commission requested
additional data in the NPRM. See 88 FR 54749.
382 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 11.
383 Id. at 11, 22.
384 The White House, White House Blueprint for
Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis 1 (2022),
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/
2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf.
385 Id. at 15.
386 Kate Kennedy-Moulton et al., Maternal and
Infant Health Inequality: New Evidence from Linked
Administrative Data 5 (Nat’l Bureau of Econ. Rsch.,
Working Paper No. 30,693, 2022), https://
www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/
w30693/w30693.pdf (finding that maternal and
infant health vary with income, but infant and
maternal health in Black families at the top of the
income distribution is similar to or worse than that
of White families at the bottom of the income
distribution).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Some studies have shown increased
risk of miscarriage,387 preterm birth,388
low birth weight, urinary tract
infections, fainting, and other health
problems for pregnant employees
because of workplace conditions.389
Research also shows that certain
workplace conditions, such as lengthy
periods of standing or walking, or high
risk of chemical exposure or noise, can
result in complications for a pregnant
employee and their baby; thus
accommodations to alleviate those
conditions improve health outcomes for
pregnant employees and their
children.390
Additionally, the provision of
accommodations may improve pregnant
employees’ mental health, as even
387 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 22; Am. Coll.
of Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion
No. 733, Employment Considerations During
Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period e119 (2018)
[hereinafter ACOG Committee Opinion], https://
www.acog.org/-/media/project/acog/acogorg/
clinical/files/committee-opinion/articles/2018/04/
employment-considerations-during-pregnancy-andthe-postpartum-period.pdf (discussing studies that
showed an increased risk of miscarriage or stillbirth
associated with night work, working more than 40
hours a week, or extensive lifting, but noting that
‘‘[i]t is difficult to draw definitive conclusions from
these studies’’).
388 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 22; ACOG
Committee Opinion, supra note 387, at e119–20
(discussing studies that found a ‘‘slight to modest
risked increase’’ of preterm birth with some work
conditions, but also noting that it is hard to know
whether these results were due to ‘‘bias and
confounding or to an actual effect’’).
389 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 22; see also
Hackney et al., supra note 341, at 774, 781 (2021)
(describing two studies that demonstrated that
perceived pregnancy discrimination serves as a
threat to women’s resources which leads to
increased postpartum depressive symptoms for
mothers, decreased birth weight and gestational age,
and increased doctors’ visits for their babies, via
mothers’ stress); Renee Mehra et al., ‘‘‘Oh Gosh,
Why Go?’ Cause They Are Going to Look At Me and
Not Hire’’: Intersectional Experiences of Black
Women Navigating Employment During Pregnancy
and Parenting, BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth 2
(2023), https://
bmcpregnancychildbirth.biomedcentral.com/
articles/10.1186/s12884-022-05268-9 (describing
studies that found that policies that protect women
in the workplace during pregnancy and the
postpartum period are important for maternal and
infant health outcomes); H.M. Salihu et al.,
Pregnancy In the Workplace, 62 Occupational Med.
88, 94 (2012), https://academic.oup.com/occmed/
article/62/2/88/1480061?login=false (finding that
while physically demanding jobs do not pose a
substantial risk to fetal health, ‘‘[a] moderate
temporary reduction in job physicality may
promote improved maternal and foetal health’’);
ACOG Committee Opinion, supra note 387, at e117
(discussing modifications for physical work and
how they could help the health of pregnant
workers).
390 See generally Francis et al., supra note 344
(describing ergonomic stressors and pregnancy
outcomes); see also Pregnant Workers Health
Impact Assessment, supra note 344, at 17–19, 23
(identifying workplace conditions that may impact
the health of a pregnant worker and their child and
basic accommodations to alleviate those conditions
to improve health outcomes).

PO 00000

Frm 00072

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

perceived pregnancy discrimination at
work has been linked to increased stress
and symptoms of postpartum
depression.391 Stress resulting from
workplace discrimination and
workplace conditions can increase risk
of preterm birth or low birth weight,
potentially resulting in serious health
problems at birth that may cause longterm health and developmental
consequences in children.392 Such
health challenges may result in
additional health care costs;
accordingly, reducing stress during
pregnancy also may reduce health care
costs.393
Moreover, employees who do not
receive needed accommodations, and
who quit their jobs as a result in order
to maintain a healthy pregnancy, often
lose employer-sponsored health
insurance in addition to losing their
incomes.394 In a letter to Congress, a
group of leading health care practitioner
organizations explained that when a
pregnant employee loses health
insurance, ‘‘the impact on both mother
and baby may be long-lasting and
severe. One of the main predictors of a
healthy pregnancy is early and
consistent prenatal care. Loss of
employment and health benefits impact
family resources, threatening the ability
to access vital health care when a
woman needs it the most.’’ 395
391 Hackney et al., supra note 341, at 777, 781.
392 Id. at 778, 781; March of Dimes, Stress and
Pregnancy, https://www.marchofdimes.org/findsupport/topics/pregnancy/stress-and-pregnancy
(last visited Mar. 25, 2024); March of Dimes, LongTerm Health Effects of Preterm Birth (Oct. 2019),
https://www.marchofdimes.org/find-support/topics/
birth/long-term-health-effects-premature-birth.
393 March of Dimes, Premature Birth: The
Financial Impact on Business (2013), https://
onprem.marchofdimes.org/materials/prematurebirth-the-financial-impact-on-business.pdf.
394 Fighting for Fairness: Examining Legislation
To Confront Workplace Discrimination, Joint
Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Civ. Rts. & Hum.
Servs. and the Subcomm. on Workforce Prots. of the
H. Comm. on Educ. & Lab., 117th Cong. 153 (2021)
[hereinafter Fighting for Fairness] (statement of
Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better
Balance) (describing employees who lose their
income and, as a result, lose their health insurance,
forcing them to delay or avoid critical prenatal or
postnatal care).
395 Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant
Workers Fairness Act (H.R. 2694), Hearing Before
the Subcomm. on Civ. Rts. & Hum. Servs. of the H.
Comm. on Educ. & Lab., 116th Cong. 142 (2019)
[hereinafter Long Over Due] (including a letter from
professional medical associations, including the
American Academy of Family Physicians, the
American Academy of Pediatrics, the American
Public Health Association, the American College of
Nurse-Midwives, the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the Association of
Women’s Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses,
the National Alliance to Advance Adolescent
Health, and Physicians for Reproductive Health);
Fighting for Fairness, supra note 394, at 30–31
(statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder and CoPresident, A Better Balance) (discussing Julia

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Finally, by helping pregnant
employees avoid health risks to
themselves and their pregnancies, the
PWFA will help contribute to improved
maternal and child health and lower
health care costs nationally.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Improvements in Pregnant Employees’
Economic Security
Access to reasonable accommodations
at work will help employees with
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to stay in the workforce, maintain their
income, and provide for themselves and
their families.396 Based on anecdotal
evidence, unavailability of
accommodations often forces employees
to take unpaid leave, quit their jobs, or
seek jobs that are potentially less
lucrative, threatening their economic
security.397 The lack of an
accommodation may also have farreaching economic effects. As the House
Committee on Education and Labor
Report for the PWFA stated, ‘‘Pregnant
workers who are pushed out of the
workplace might feel the effects for
decades, losing out on everything from
401(k) or other retirement contributions
to short-term disability benefits,
seniority, pensions, social security
contributions, life insurance, and
more.’’ 398 Provision of reasonable
accommodations may also have
economic benefits to society as a whole
by keeping people attached to the labor
force and lowering the likelihood of
some employees being compelled to
seek public assistance after they are
forced to quit their jobs.399
Barton, a pregnant corrections officer who quit her
job because she did not receive an accommodation
and therefore lost her health insurance).
396 The Commission is not able to monetize or
quantify this benefit because, although anecdotal
evidence establishes that lack of accommodation
has led employees to quit their jobs, there are no
data on how frequently this happens.
397 Long Over Due, supra note 395, at 15
(statement of Kimberlie Michelle Durham)
(describing losing her job because she needed an
accommodation and explaining that her new job
did not provide overtime or benefits); id. at 150–
53 (letter from the ACLU) (describing the ACLU’s
legal representation of pregnant employees, many of
whom were forced to take unpaid leave or lost their
jobs).
398 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 21–22, 25.
399 See Long Over Due, supra note 395, at 15
(statement of Kimberlie Michelle Durham)
(describing when she was forced to go on unpaid
leave after she asked for an accommodation and, as
a consequence, was unable to find new
employment, moved back in with family, and was
unable to find a job with benefits comparable to
those offered by her EMT job, including health
insurance; her child is on Medicaid); id. at 41
(statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & CoPresident, A Better Balance) (discussing a pregnant
cashier who needed lifting restriction but was sent
home and, without income, became homeless); id.
at 46 (statement of Dina Bakst) (discussing an
armored truck company employee who requested to

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Providing needed workplace
accommodations to qualified applicants
and employees with limitations related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions is another step
toward ensuring women’s continued
and increased participation in the labor
force.400 Among other things, women’s
participation in the labor force is
heavily impacted by pregnancy and the
demands associated with raising young
children.401 The passage of the PDA in
1978, which prohibits employment
discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
and requires that women affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions be treated the same
as other individuals similar in their
ability or inability to work, increased
the participation rate of pregnant
women in the labor market.402 As of
2021, over 66 percent of women in the
United States who gave birth in the
prior year were in the labor force,403 up
from about 57 percent in 2006.404
Moreover, an increasing number of
pregnant employees are working later
into their pregnancies—over 65 percent
of first-time mothers who worked
during their pregnancy worked into the
last month before their child’s birth.405
avoid heavy lifting at the end of pregnancy but was
instead sent home; as a result, she lost health
insurance and needed to rely on public benefits
such as food stamps); id. at 70 (statement of Dina
Bakst) (presenting stories from State legislatures
that describe savings to government assistance
programs stemming from the passage of PWFA-like
laws in their States).
400 Id.; see also id. at 25 (statement of Iris Wilbur,
Vice President of Government Affairs & Public
Policy, Greater Louisville, Inc., The Metro Chamber
of Commerce) (‘‘[T]he Act will help boost our
country’s workforce participation rate among
women. In States like Kentucky, which ranks 44th
in the nation for female labor participation, we
know one contributor to this abysmal statistic is a
pregnant worker who is forced out or quits a job
due to a lack of reasonable workplace
accommodations.’’).
401 Catherine Doren, Is Two Too Many? Parity and
Mothers’ Labor Force Exit, 81 J. Marriage & Fam.
327, 341 (2019) (stating that ‘‘transition to
motherhood is the primary turning point in
women’s labor force participation’’).
402 Sankar Mukhopadhyay, The Effects of the
1978 Pregnancy Discrimination Act on Female
Labor Supply, 53 Int’l Econ. Rev. 1133 (2012).
403 U.S. Dep’t of Com., Census Bureau, Births in
the Past Year and Labor Force Participation for
Women Aged 16–50, by Education: 2006 to 2019
(2023) [hereinafter Births in the Past Year and
Labor Force Participation], https://www.census.gov/
data/tables/time-series/demo/fertility/his-cps.html
(select ‘‘Historical Table 5’’); see also Steven
Ruggles et al., IPUMS USA: Version 12.0 (2022),
https://doi.org/10.18128/D010.V12.0.
404 Births in the Past Year and Labor Force
Participation, supra note 403.
405 Lynda Laughlin, U.S. Dep’t of Com., Census
Bureau, Maternity Leave and Employment Patterns
of First-Time Mothers, 1961–2008 6 (2011), https://
www2.census.gov/library/publications/2011/demo/
p70-128.pdf.

PO 00000

Frm 00073

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29167

By requiring reasonable
accommodations for employees with
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, the PWFA
and this rule will further support and
enhance women’s labor force
participation, and, in turn, grow the
U.S. economy.406
Non-Discrimination and Other Intrinsic
Benefits
Providing accommodations to
employees with limitations related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
also has important implications for
equity, human dignity, and fairness.
First, by allowing pregnant employees
to care for their health and the health of
their pregnancies, the PWFA enhances
human dignity. Employees will be able
to prioritize their health and the health
of their future children, giving their
children the best possible start in life
while also protecting their economic
security. As one comment explained,
the PWFA gives pregnant employees a
strong sense of dignity and belonging in
the workforce, and ‘‘the reasonable
accommodation framework relieves
individual employees of the burden of
proving animus: of showing that an
employer’s inflexible imposition of
workplace standards reflects sex
stereotyping that flows from the
invidious assumption that pregnant
workers are not competent or committed
workers.’’ 407
Second, the PWFA will diminish the
incidence of sex discrimination against
qualified employees, enable them to
reach their full potential, reduce
exclusion, and promote self-respect. The
statute and the rule provide for
reasonable accommodations to
employees who would otherwise not
receive them and thus could be forced
to leave their jobs or the workforce
because of their pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. Also, the
statute and the rule require a covered
entity to engage an employee in an
interactive process, rather than simply
assigning the employee an
accommodation, which combats
stereotypes about the capabilities of
employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. Finally, the statute and the
rule protect employees against
retaliation and coercion for using the
protections of the statute. These
protections against discrimination
406 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 24 (‘‘Ensuring
pregnant workers have reasonable accommodations
helps ensure that pregnant workers remain healthy
and earn an income when they need it the most.’’).
407 Siegel, supra note 348, at 220–26.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29168

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

promote human dignity and equity by
enabling qualified employees to
participate or continue to participate in
the workforce.408
Third, because the PWFA applies to
so many covered entities, it will
improve equity in the workforce.
Currently, employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions in higher paying
jobs and non-physical jobs are much
more likely to be able to control their
schedules, take bathroom breaks, or eat,
drink water, or telework when
necessary.409 These employees may not
have to request accommodations from
their employers to meet many of their
pregnancy-related needs. Employees in
low-wage jobs, however, are much less
likely to be able to organize their
schedules to allow them to take breaks
that may be necessary due to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.410 Nearly one-third of Black
and Latina workers are in low-wage
jobs,411 the types of jobs that are less
408 See Salihu et al., supra note 389, at 94 (finding
that ‘‘[w]omen who perceive employers and
superiors as supportive are more likely to return to
work after childbirth. This reduces the risk to
employers regarding loss in skill and training.
Similarly, businesses that plan for and proactively
approach pregnancy in the workplace show lower
rates of quitting and greater ease of shifting
workloads in the event of a pregnancy, which
increases productivity and decreases losses’’); Long
Over Due, supra note 395, at 15 (testimony of
Kimberlie Michelle Durham) (‘‘I wanted to work. I
loved my job.’’). See also Salihu et al., supra note
389, at 93 (describing steps pregnant women take
to combat the perception that they are a liability in
the workforce and reinforce their role as
‘‘professionals’’); Long Over Due, supra note 395, at
41 (statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & CoPresident, A Better Balance) (describing an
employee who was denied an accommodation but
who ‘‘desperately wanted to continue working’’);
Hackney et al., supra note 341, at 780 (explaining
that managers may make incorrect assumptions
about what pregnant employees want, such as
assuming a reduced workload is beneficial, whereas
pregnant employees might find this accommodation
demeaning or discriminatory, and noting the
importance of managers ‘‘hav[ing] an open dialogue
with their employees about what types of support
[are] needed and desired’’).
409 Long Over Due, supra note 395, at 83
(statement of Rep. Barbara Lee) (describing her own
pregnancy, which required bedrest, and contrasting
her experience with the experience of employees in
less flexible jobs).
410 Fighting for Fairness, supra note 394, at 108
(statement of Fatima Goss Graves, President & CEO
of the National Women’s Law Center) (‘‘[O]ver 40%
of full-time workers in low-paid jobs report that
their employers do not permit them to decide when
to take breaks, and roughly half report having very
little or no control over the scheduling of hours.’’).
NWLC defines low-wage occupations as jobs that
pay $11.50 per hour or less (the annual equivalent
of about $23,920 per year ($11.50 × 2080 hours),
which assumes a 40-hour workweek for 52 weeks).
Morgan Harwood & Sarah David Heydemann, By
the Numbers: Where Do Pregnant Women Work?,
Nat’l Women’s Law Ctr. 4 n.11 (Aug. 2019), https://
nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/PregnantWorkers-by-the-Numbers-v3-1.pdf.
411 Fighting for Fairness, supra note 394, at 108.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

likely to currently provide
accommodations.412 Therefore, the
PWFA and this rule will improve equity
in the workforce by ensuring that lowpaid employees, including Black and
Latina employees who may have a more
difficult time securing voluntary
accommodations, will have a right to
them.
Fourth, providing reasonable
accommodations to employees who
would otherwise have been denied them
yields third-party benefits that include
diminishing stereotypes regarding
employees who are experiencing
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; 413 promoting
design, availability, and awareness of
accommodations that can have benefits
for the general public, including nonpregnant employees, and attitudinal
benefits; 414 increasing understanding
and fairness in the workplace; 415 and
creating less discriminatory work
environments that benefit employees,
employers, and society.416
Clarity in Enforcement and Efficiencies
in Litigation
Congress, in describing the goals of
the PWFA, also focused on the clarity
that the PWFA would bring to the
question of when employers must
412 Id. at 204 (Letter from the National Partnership
for Women & Families) (stating that women of color
and immigrants are ‘‘disproportionately likely to
work in jobs and industries where accommodations
during pregnancy are not often provided (such as
home health aides, food service workers, package
handlers and cleaners)’’); id. at 207–08 (Letter from
Physicians for Reproductive Choice) (‘‘The absence
of legislation like the Pregnant Workers Fairness
Act disproportionately impacts pregnant people
with low-incomes and migrant workers who are
more likely to work in arduous settings. These are
the same communities that are also most at risk of
experiencing increased maternal mortality.’’).
413 See Salihu et al., supra note 389, at 93
(describing studies that have ‘‘substantiated the
pervasiveness of negative perceptions of pregnant
women’’ and the common belief that they serve as
a liability in the workplace); id. at 94–95
(concluding that the issue of pregnancy in the
workplace needs to be addressed proactively with
an emphasis on combating stereotypes of pregnant
women as incompetent or uncommitted).
414 See Elizabeth F. Emens, Integrating
Accommodation, 156 U. Pa. L. Rev. 839, 850–59
(2008) (describing a wide range of potential thirdparty benefits that may arise from workplace
accommodations for individuals with disabilities,
many of which are also relevant to accommodations
for individuals protected by the PWFA).
415 See id. at 883–96 (describing attitudinal thirdparty benefits that arise when co-workers work with
individuals receiving accommodations in the
workplace under the ADA, many of which are
relevant to accommodations for individuals
protected by the PWFA).
416 See Long Over Due, supra note 395, at 3
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici) (describing
the PWFA as ‘‘an opportunity for Congress to
finally fulfill the promise of the Pregnancy
Discrimination Act and take an important step
towards workplace gender equity,’’ among other
benefits).

PO 00000

Frm 00074

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

provide accommodations for limitations
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions: ‘‘The PWFA
eliminates a lack of clarity in the current
legal framework that has frustrated
pregnant workers’ legal rights to
reasonable accommodations while
providing clear guidance to both
workers and employers.’’ 417 By creating
a national standard, the PWFA also may
increase compliance with State laws
requiring accommodations for pregnant
employees,418 as coming into
compliance with the PWFA may
increase employers’ knowledge about
these laws in general. In the short time
that the PWFA has been in effect, one
comment noted that dozens of
employees had informed them of the
‘‘transformative effect’’ of the law, with
employees who had previously been
denied reasonable accommodations
having them provided.419 For example,
an electrician’s assistant reported that,
following her request for a pregnancyrelated accommodation, her employer
attempted to place her on leave; but
after advocating for herself under the
PWFA, her employer exhibited
increased flexibility and willingness to
accommodate her.420 An employee in
telecommunications stated that, after
her employer took months to respond to
her request for a postpartum
accommodation, she informed her
employer of her rights under the PWFA,
and her employer granted the
accommodation request.421 A tax
specialist reported that she requested a
pregnancy-related accommodation that
her employer denied without
explanation; after she educated her
employer about the PWFA, her
employer granted her request for an
accommodation.422
By clarifying the rules regarding
accommodations for pregnant
employees, the PWFA and the rule will
decrease the need for litigation
417 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 11, 31 (‘‘By
guaranteeing pregnant workers the right to
reasonable accommodations in the workplace, the
PWFA could also decrease employers’ legal
uncertainty.’’); see also Long Over Due, supra note
395, at 24 (statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice President
of Government Affairs & Public Policy, Greater
Louisville, Inc., The Metro Chamber of Commerce)
(‘‘For our members, uncertainty means dollars. A
consistent and predictable legal landscape means a
business-friendly environment. Before Kentucky’s
law was enacted this summer, our employers were
forced to navigate a complex web of Federal laws
and court decisions to figure out their obligations.
And now this guidance is especially beneficial for
the smaller companies we represent who cannot
afford expensive legal advisors.’’).
418 For a list of these laws, see infra Table 1.
419 Comment EEOC–2023–0004–98298, A Better
Balance, at 7 (Oct. 10, 2023).
420 Id. at 88.
421 Id. at 88–89.
422 Id. at 89.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
regarding accommodations under the
PWFA. To the extent that litigation
remains unavoidable in certain
circumstances, the PWFA and the rule
are expected to eliminate the need to
litigate whether the condition in
question is a ‘‘disability’’ under the
ADA, and to limit discovery and
litigation costs that arise under Title VII
regarding determining if there are valid
comparators, thus streamlining the
issues requiring judicial attention.423

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Benefits for Covered Entities
Providing accommodations needed
due to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions is also likely to
provide benefits to covered entities. By
providing accommodations to
employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
and retaining them as employees,
employers will save money by not
having to obtain and train new
employees. The Commission is not
aware of any data regarding the need to
obtain and train employees arising
specifically from provision of
reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. Studies examining
the relationship between employee
retention and provision of reasonable
accommodations for disabilities
generally suggest that the benefits to
covered entities may be significant.
According to one study, 85 percent of
employers that provided
accommodations to individuals with
disabilities reported that doing so
enabled them to retain a valued
employee; 53 percent reported an
increase in that employee’s
productivity; 46 percent reported
elimination of costs associated with
training a new employee; 48 percent
reported an increase in that employee’s
attendance; 33 percent noted that
providing the accommodation increased
diversity in the company; and 23
percent reported a decrease in workers’
compensation or other costs. Employers
also noted several indirect benefits: 30
percent noted an increase in company
morale, and 21 percent noted an
423 See H.R. Report No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 14–17
(describing the need to find comparators under
Title VII and the difficulties it has caused pregnant
employees seeking accommodations); id. at 17–21
(describing the protections available for pregnant
employees under the ADA and the fact that
frequently even pregnancies with severe
complications are found by courts not to be
‘‘disabilities’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

increase in overall company
productivity.424
Costs
Covered Entities and the Existing Legal
Landscape
Entities covered by the PWFA and the
regulation include all employers
covered by Title VII and the
Government Employee Rights Act of
1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16a–16c (GERA),
including private and public sector
employers with 15 or more employees,
Federal agencies, employment agencies,
and labor organizations.425
In addition to the legal protections
described earlier in the preamble
pertaining to Title VII, the ADA, and the
FMLA, there are three other important
legal considerations that impact the
costs of accommodations under the
PWFA and this regulation.
First, 30 States and 5 localities have
laws substantially similar to the PWFA,
requiring covered employers to provide
reasonable accommodations to pregnant
employees.426 As a result, this rule will
impose minimal, if any, additional costs
on the covered entities in these States
and localities.427
Second, when it enacted the PWFA,
Congress also enacted the PUMP Act,
which requires employers who are
covered by the FLSA to provide
reasonable break time for an employee
to pump breast milk each time such
employee has the need to express milk
for up to 1 year after the child’s birth.
The PUMP Act also requires employers
to provide a place to pump at work,
other than a bathroom, that is shielded
from view and free from intrusion from
424 See Costs and Benefits of Accommodation,
supra note 209.
425 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(A). The PWFA also
applies to employers covered by the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 (42 U.S.C.
2000gg(2)(B)(ii)). The proposed regulation does not
apply to employers covered under the
Congressional Accountability Act, as the
Commission does not have the authority to enforce
the PWFA with respect to employees covered by the
Act.
426 See infra Table 1; see also U.S. Dep’t of Lab.,
Employment Protections for Workers Who Are
Pregnant or Nursing, https://www.dol.gov/agencies/
wb/pregnant-nursing-employment-protections (last
visited Mar. 25, 2024).
427 The PWFA analogues in Alaska, North
Carolina, and Texas only cover certain public
employers. The laws in Louisiana and Minnesota
apply to employers larger than the PWFA threshold
of 15 or more employees (25 or more employees in
Louisiana; 21 or more employees in Minnesota). As
explained below, the analysis takes these
differences into account.

PO 00000

Frm 00075

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29169

coworkers and the public.428 As a result,
the Commission anticipates that most
employees will not need to seek
reasonable accommodations regarding a
time and place to pump at work under
the PWFA because they will already be
entitled to these under the PUMP Act.
Third, the Federal Government
provides 12 weeks of paid parental
leave to eligible Federal employees
upon the birth of a new child.429 As a
result, these Federal employees may
make fewer requests for leave as a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA as they are already guaranteed a
certain amount of paid leave.
Estimate of the Number of Reasonable
Accommodations That Will Be Provided
as a Result of the Rule and Underlying
Statute
As set out in Tables 1 and 2 and
explained in detail below, the rule and
underlying statute cover approximately
116.7 million employees of private
establishments with 15 or more
employees, 18.8 million State and local
government employees, and 2.3 million
Federal employees. Only a small
percentage of these employees are
expected to seek and be entitled to
accommodations as a result of the rule
and underlying statute.
Approximately 52 percent of private
sector enterprises with 15 or more
employees in the United States (1.4
million establishments), employing
about 61.2 million employees
(accounting for 52 percent of
employment in those States), are
currently subject to State or local laws
that are substantially similar to the
PWFA. The enactment of the PWFA and
promulgation of the rule, therefore,
should not result in additional
accommodation-related costs for these
employers. Subtracting 61.2 million
employees from the total number of
covered employees employed by private
sector enterprises (116.7 million) yields
a total of approximately 55.5 million
employees of private sector
establishments who will be covered by
the rule and underlying statute, and
who are not also covered by State or
local laws that are substantially similar
to the PWFA. Tables 1 and 2 display
428 U.S. Dep’t of Lab., FLSA Protections to Pump
at Work, https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/pumpat-work (last visited Mar. 25, 2024).
429 Federal Employee Paid Leave Act, 133 Stat. at
2304–05.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29170

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

each State’s share of the total national
number of private sector establishments
that have 15 or more employees and
thus will be subject to the PWFA, and

the percentage of employees in the State
employed by such establishments.
States with laws substantially similar to

the PWFA are in Table 1; States without
such a law are in Table 2.
BILLING CODE 6570–01–P

Table 1: Share of Employers with 15 or More Employees in States Already Subject to Local Pregnancy
Accommodation Laws Similar to the PWFA430
Share in U.S. Total431
State
432
Establishments
Employment
Statute
Threshold

Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Hawaii
Illinois
Kentucky

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Louisiana433

Cal. Gov't Code sec.
12945(a)(3)
Colo. Rev. Stat. sec. 2434-402.3
Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 46a60(b )(7)(A}-(K)
Del. Code Ann. Tit. 19,
sec. 711(a)(3)(b}-(f)
D.C. Code sec. 32-1231.02
Haw. Code R. sec. 12-46107
775 Ill. Comp. Stat. sec.
5/2-102(1}-(J)
Ky. Rev. Stat. sec.
344.040
La. Rev. Stat. sec.
23:341ff-342

430 U.S. Dep’t of Com., Census Bureau, The
Number of Firms and Establishments, Employment,
and Annual Payroll by State, Industry, and
Enterprise Employment Size: 2020 (2020)
[hereinafter Firms and Establishments Data by
State], https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2020/
econ/susb/2020-susb-annual.html (select ‘‘U.S. &
States, NAICS, Detailed Employment Sizes’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

5

Frm 00076

Fmt 4701

11.6%

1.9%

1.8%

1.2%

1.2%

0.4%
0.4%

0.3%
0.4%

0.4%

0.4%

3.9%

4.2%

1.4%

1.3%

1.3%

1.2%

3
4
1
1
1
15
25

Percentages in the Table reflect filtering by size and
summing by State.
431 This number is limited to enterprises with 15
or more employees.
432 This denotes the minimum number of
employees that an employer must have to be
covered by the State law.

PO 00000

10.6%
5

Sfmt 4725

433 These numbers only account for enterprises
with at least 25 employees because Louisiana’s
pregnancy accommodation law applies to
employers with 25 or more employees. See La. Rev.
Stat. Ann. sec. 23:341 (2021).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.087</GPH>

California

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Maryland
Massachusetts
Minnesota434
Nebraska
Nevada
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York

North Dakota
Oregon
Pennsylvania435
Rhode Island
South Carolina
Tennessee
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Total436

Me. Stat. tit. 5, sec. 4572A
Md. Code, State Gov't sec.
20- 609
Mass. Gen. Laws ch.
151B, sec. 4(1E)(a)
Minn. Stat. sec. 181.939
Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 481102(11 ), 1102(18)
Nev. Rev. Stat. sec.
613.438
N.J. Stat. Ann. Sec. 10:53.1
N.M. Code R. sec.
9.l.1.7(HH)(2)
N.Y. Exec. Law sec.
292(21-e), (21-t); sec.
296(3)
N.D. Cent. Code Ann. Sec.
14-02.4-03
Or. Rev. Stat. sec.
659A.029
Phila. Code sec. 9-1128
R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 28-57.4(a)(l)-(3)
S.C. Code Ann. Sec. 1-1380(A)(4)
Tenn. Code. Ann. Sec. 5010-103
Utah Code sec. 34A-5106(1)(g)
Vt. Stat. Ann. Tit. 21, sec.
495k(a)(l)
Va. Code sec. 2.2-3909
Wash. Rev. Code sec.
43. 10.005(2)
W. Va. Code sec. 5-llB-2

1

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

21
15

Frm 00077

1.9%

1.8%

2.3%
1.7%

2.6%
2.0%

0.7%

0.6%

0.9%

1.0%

2.6%

2.8%

0.6%

0.5%

5.2%

6.3%

0.3%

0.3%

1.4%

1.2%

0.4%

0.5%

0.3%

0.3%

1.6%

1.5%

2.2%

2.1%

0.9%

1.1%

0.2%
2.8%

0.2%
2.6%

2.3%
0.6%
51%

2.2%
0.4%
52%

1.4

61.2

15
1
4
4

1
6
1
(Philadelphia)
4
15
15
15
1
5
15
12

Philadelphia accounts for approximately 9 percent
of Pennsylvania establishments and approximately
12 percent of individuals employed in
Pennsylvania. See U.S. Dep’t of Comm., Census
Bureau, The Number of Firms and Establishments,
Employment, and Annual Payroll by Congressional
District, Industry, and Enterprise Employment Size:
2019 (2019), https://www.census.gov/data/tables/
2019/econ/susb/2019-susb-annual.html (select
‘‘State by Congressional District, NAICS Sectors’’).

PO 00000

0.4%

6

Total (in millions)

434 These numbers only account for enterprises
with at least 25 employees because Minnesota’s
pregnancy accommodation law applies to
employers with 21 or more employees. Minn. Stat.
sec. 181.940, 181.9414, 181.9436 (2014). Data on
enterprises with 21 to 24 employees are not
available.
435 Pennsylvania does not have a State-wide
pregnancy accommodation law, but Philadelphia
does. See Phila. Code sec. 9–1128 (2014).

0.5%
15

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

The calculation is based on the total number of
establishments and total employment in
Pennsylvania and in Philadelphia County and the
shares of employment in each.
436 This total does not include Alaska, North
Carolina, and Texas, where the pregnancy
accommodation laws only apply to certain public
employees.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.088</GPH>

Maine

29171

29172

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Table 2: Share of Total U.S. Employer Establishments with 15 or More Employees in States That Will Be
Impacted by PWFA437
Share in U.S. Total438
Establishments

Employment

Alabama

1.5%

1.3%

Alaska439

0.2%

0.2%

Arizona

2.0%

2.0%

Arkansas

0.9%

0.8%

Florida

6.0%

6.8%

Georgia

3.1%

3.1%

Idaho

0.6%

0.4%

Indiana

2.2%

2.1%

Iowa

1.1%

1.0%

Kansas

1.0%

0.9%

Louisiana440

0.2%

0.1%

Michigan

2.9%

3.0%

Minnesota441

0.3%

0.1%

Mississiooi

0.9%

0.7%

Missouri

2.1%

1.9%

Montana

0.4%

0.2%

New Hamoshire

0.5%

0.5%

North Carolina442

3.2%

3.0%

Ohio

3.8%

3.8%

Oklahoma

1.2%

1.0%

Pennsylvania443

3.8%

3.7%

South Dakota

0.3%

0.3%

Texas444

8.5%

8.5%

Wisconsin

2.0%

2.0%

Wyoming

0.2%

0.1%

Total

49%

48%

Total (in millions)

1.3

55.5

437 Firms and Establishments Data by State, supra
note 430. Percentages in the table reflect filtering by
size and summing by State.
438 This number is limited to enterprises with 15
or more employees.
439 Alaska’s statute, codified at Alaska Stat. sec.
39.20.520 (1992), covers public employers only.
440 These numbers only include enterprises with
15–24 employees because Louisiana’s pregnancy
accommodation law applies to employers with 25
or more employees. La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 23:341
(2021).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Subtracting this number from the total
number of covered State and local
government employees (18.8 million)
yields a total of 7.3 million State and
local government employees who will
be covered by the rule and underlying
statute and who are not already covered

441 These numbers only include enterprises with
15–24 employees because Minnesota’s pregnancy
accommodation law applies to employers with 21
or more employees. Minn. Stat. sec. 181.940,
181.9414, 181.9436 (2014). Data on enterprises with
15–20 employees are not available.

PO 00000

Frm 00078

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

by State or local laws substantially
similar to the PWFA.
442 North Carolina Executive Order No. 82 (2018)
covers public employers only.
443 See supra note 435.
444 The Texas statute, codified at Tex. Loc. Gov’t
Code sec. 180.004 (2001), covers local public
employers only.
445 U.S. Dep’t of Com., Census Bureau, 2021
ASPEP Datasets & Tables (2021) [hereinafter ASPEP
Datasets], https://www.census.gov/data/datasets/
2021/econ/apes/annual-apes.html. The calculation
is based on data from the ‘‘State Government
Employment & Payroll Data’’ and the ‘‘Local
Government Employment & Payroll’’ files, in the
‘‘Government Function’’ column.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.090</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Similarly, approximately 11.5 million
State and local government employees
are covered by laws that are
substantially similar to the PWFA.445

ER19AP24.089</GPH>

State

29173

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Finally, there are 2.3 million Federal
employees. The Federal Government
does not currently require
accommodations for pregnant
employees; thus, the PWFA provides a
new right for these employees.446
Again, however, not all employees
who are now covered by the PWFA will
seek and be entitled to accommodations
as a result of the rule and underlying
statute; only a small percentage will
become pregnant and need
accommodations in a given year.
To estimate the number of individuals
who will be entitled to a pregnancyrelated accommodation, and who will
receive one as a result of the PWFA and
its implementing regulations, the
Commission first estimates the
proportion of newly covered employees
who are capable of becoming pregnant.
In 2021, women of reproductive age
(aged 16–50 years) comprised
approximately 33 percent of U.S.
employees.447 On the basis of this
finding, the Commission adopts 33

percent as its estimate of the percentage
of employees who are capable of
becoming pregnant.
The Commission next estimates the
proportion of individuals capable of
becoming pregnant who will actually
become pregnant in a given year.
Research shows that approximately 4.7
percent of individuals who are capable
of becoming pregnant gave birth to at
least one child during the previous
year.448 This figure must be adjusted
upward to account for the fact that not
all individuals who become pregnant
give birth—some pregnant individuals
have miscarriages, stillbirths, or
abortions. Research shows that, between
2015 and 2019, live births in the United
States accounted for 67 percent of all
pregnancies among women aged 15–44
years on average.449 Assuming that the
ratio of live births to total pregnancies
among women of reproductive age in
the labor force is the same as among all
15–44 years old women, the

Commission estimates that the
percentage of individuals capable of
becoming pregnant who will actually
become pregnant in given year is 0.047
÷ 0.67 = 0.071 (rounded up), or 7.1
percent. The Commission thus adopts
7.1 percent as its estimate of the
percentage of individuals capable of
becoming pregnant within a population
who will actually become pregnant in a
given year.
Applying these percentages to the
numbers above yields totals (rounded to
the nearest 1,000) of, in a given year, 1.3
million private sector employees
(55,500,000 × 0.33 × 0.071), 171,000
State and local government employees
(7,300,000 × 0.33 × 0.071), and 54,000
Federal employees (2,300,000 × 0.33 ×
0.071) who are both newly eligible for
reasonable accommodations under the
rule and underlying statute, and who
may be expected to become pregnant in
a given year. Tables 3, 4, and 5 display
these calculations.

Table 3: Computation of Expected Number of Pregnant Women Eligible for PWFA Accommodations at
Private Emolovers
Total employment in establishments covered under PWF A (i.e., those with 15 or more
116.7 million
employees)
Total employment in establishments covered under PWFA, with existing PWFA-type
61.2 million
accommodations under State/local laws (from Table I)
Total employment in establishments covered under PWFA, without existing PWF A-type
accommodations under State/local laws (from Table 2)
Share of 16-50 years old women
Total number of women employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA (33%
of 55.5 million)

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00079

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4725

1.3 million

447 See Ruggles et al., supra note 403.
448 Id.
449 Rossen et al., supra note 317, at 9 tbl. A.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.091</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Expected number of pregnant employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA
(7.1% of 18.3 million)

See Federal Employee Paid Leave Act, 133 Stat. at
2304–05. Individuals eligible for such leave may be
less likely to need leave as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA.

33%
18.3 million
7.1%

Expected share of women employees to be pregnant in a year

446 As noted above, however, most Federal
employees are entitled to 12 weeks of paid parental
leave during the 12-month period following birth of
a child (or other qualifying event) under the FEPLA.

55.5 million

29174

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Table 4 Computation of Expected Number of Pregnant Women Eligible for PWFA Accommodations in State
and Local Government Employment450
Total State and local government employment
18.8 million
Total State and local government employment in States with existing PWFA-type
accommodations under State/local laws451
Total State and local government employment in States without existing PWFA-type
accommodations under State/local laws452
Share of 16-50 years old women

11.5 million

Total number of State and local government women employees newly eligible for
accommodations under PWFA (33% of7.3 million)
Expected share of women employees to be pregnant in a year

2.41 million

7.3 million
33%

7.1%

Expected number of pregnant State and local government employees newly eligible for
accommodations under PWFA (7 .1 % of 2.41 million)

171,000

Table 5: Computation of Expected Number of Pregnant Women Eligible for PWFA Accommodations in
Federal Government Emplovment
Total Federal Government civilian employment453
2.3 million
33%
Share of 16-50 years old women
Total number of women Federal Government employees newly eligible for
0.76 million
accommodations under PWF A
Expected share of women employees to be pregnant in a year
7.1%
54,000
Expected number of pregnant Federal Government employees newly eligible for
accommodations underPWFA (7.1% of0.76 million)

450 The calculation is based on data as described
in ASPEP Datasets, supra note 445.
451 This number includes 12 percent of State and
local government employment in Pennsylvania to
account for Philadelphia’s PWFA-type law,
excludes local government employment in North
Carolina because the existing law only applies to
State employees, and excludes State government
employment in Texas because the existing law only
applies to local governments.
452 This number includes State and local
government employment in Pennsylvania not
accounted for by Philadelphia, includes local
government employment in North Carolina because
the existing law only applies to State employees,
and includes State government employment in
Texas because the existing law only applies to local
governments.
453 U.S. Dep’t of Com., Bureau of Econ. Analysis,
Full-Time and Part-Time Employees by Industry,
https://apps.bea.gov/iTable/?reqid=19&step=2&
isuri=1&1921=survey#eyJhcHBpZCI6MTksInN0ZX
BzIjpbMSwyLDNdLCJkYXRhIjpbWyJDYXRlZ29
yaWVzIiwiU3VydmV5Il0sWy
JOSVBBX1RhYmxlX0xpc3QiLCIxOTMiXV19 (last
updated Sept. 29, 2023).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

accommodation are limited. One survey
indicated that 71 percent of pregnant
employees experience a pregnancyrelated limitation that requires extra
breaks, such as bathroom breaks; 61
percent experience a limitation that
requires a change in schedule or more
time off, for example, to see prenatal
care providers; 53 percent experience a
limitation that requires a change in
duties, such as less lifting or more
sitting; and 40 percent experience a
limitation that requires some other type
of workplace adjustment.454
The research establishes that 71
percent of pregnant individuals
surveyed needed the most common type
of pregnancy-related reasonable
accommodation: additional breaks. The
Commission assumes for purposes of
the final economic impact analysis that
the pregnant individuals in the study
who needed one of the more unusual
accommodations are a subset of the 71
percent who need additional breaks.
The Commission thus adopts 71 percent
as its upper bound estimate of the
percentage of pregnant employees who
will need a pregnancy-related
454 Declercq et al., supra note 319, at 36. As
explained in the preamble, the Commission is
maintaining this as the high bound of employees
who may need an accommodation because this is
the percentage of employees who needed the
simplest accommodation (e.g., breaks to use the
bathroom).

PO 00000

Frm 00080

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

accommodation under the rule.455
Applying the 71 percent estimate yields
upper bound estimates (rounded to the
nearest 1,000) of 923,000 private sector
employees (71 percent of 1,300,000),
121,000 State and local government
employees (71 percent of 171,000), and
38,000 Federal sector employees (71
percent of 54,000), for a total 1,082,000
employees, who will need a reasonable
accommodation and who will receive
one as a result of the PWFA and the rule
in a given year.
In setting its lower bound estimate,
the Commission observes that not every
individual who is newly entitled to a
pregnancy-related accommodation
under the PWFA and the rule, and who
receives such an accommodation, will
receive it as a result of the rule. Some
of these individuals will already be
entitled to receive pregnancy-related
accommodations under other
authorities, independently of the PWFA
and its implementing regulations—some
will already be entitled to them under
the ADA, others will be entitled to them
under Title VII, and yet others will be
455 The Commission asserts that this estimate is
almost certainly too high because, although 71
percent of the pregnant individuals participating in
the research needed a reasonable accommodation,
not all such individuals needed the PWFA to obtain
such accommodation. As explained above, many
individuals who need pregnancy-related
accommodations may already be entitled to them
under the ADA, Title VII, or formal or informal
employer policies.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.093</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

The sum of the expected number of
pregnant women eligible for PWFA
accommodations in the private sector
(1.3 million), State and local
government (171,000), and Federal
Government (54,000) is 1.525 million.
The Commission next estimates the
proportion of pregnant individuals in
the workplace who may need a
pregnancy-related reasonable
accommodation and who will receive
such accommodation as a result of the
rule and the underlying statute. Data
regarding the number of pregnant
employees needing some type of

ER19AP24.092</GPH>

BILLING CODE 6570–01–C

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
entitled to them under formal or
informal employer policies.456
Therefore, costs arising from pregnancyrelated accommodations cannot always
be attributed to the rule and the
underlying statute, even where the
employee in question was not
previously covered under a State law
analogous to the PWFA.
To generate its lower bound estimate,
the Commission reduces its upper
bound estimate of 71 percent to reflect
the fact that some of those individuals
would receive their requested
accommodation independently of the
rule. According to the study cited
above,457 42 percent of the individuals
who needed additional breaks due to a
pregnancy-related limitation did not
receive them because they were never
requested, and 3 percent did not receive
them because the employer denied their
request. Thus, 0.71 × 0.45 = 0.32, or 32
percent, of pregnant individuals
surveyed needed, but did not receive
the requested accommodation. On the
basis of this research, the Commission
adopts 32 percent as its lower bound
estimate of the percentage of pregnant
employees who will need a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA and
its implementing regulations. Applying
this percentage yields lower bound
estimates (rounded to the nearest 1,000)
of approximately 416,000 private sector
employees (32 percent of 1,300,000);
55,000 State and local government
employees (32 percent of 171,000); and
17,000 Federal sector employees (32
percent of 54,000), for a total of 488,000
employees who will need, and be newly
entitled to, reasonable accommodations
under the rule and underlying statute in
a given year.
Cost of Accommodation
Accommodations that allow pregnant
employees to continue to perform their
job duties, thereby allowing them to
receive continued pay and benefits,
include additional rest or bathroom

breaks, use of a stool or chair, a change
in duties to avoid strenuous physical
activities, and schedule changes to
attend prenatal appointments.458 Some
of these accommodations, especially
additional rest or bathroom breaks and
provision of a stool or chair, are
expected to impose minimal or no
additional costs on the employer.
Certain other types of accommodations,
such as allowing the employee to avoid
heavy lifting or exposure to certain
types of chemicals, may be easy to
provide in some jobs but more difficult
to provide in others, necessitating
temporary restructuring of
responsibilities or transferring to a
different position.
The Commission was unable to find
any data on the average cost of
reasonable accommodations related
specifically to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. The
Commission has therefore relied on the
available data on the cost of
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities for purposes of this analysis.
A survey conducted by the Job
Accommodation Network (JAN)
indicates that most workplace
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities are low-cost.459 Of the
employers participating in this survey
between 2019 and 2022, 49.4 percent
reported that they provided an
accommodation needed because of a
disability that did not cost anything to
implement. The Commission believes
that the percentage of no-cost
accommodations is likely to be higher
for accommodations related specifically
to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, because many will
be simple and no-cost like access to
water, stools, or more frequent bathroom
breaks, and because the vast majority
will be temporary. Nevertheless,
because the Commission is unable to
locate any data on the percentage of
accommodations needed because of
pregnancy-related conditions that have

29175

no cost, the Commission conservatively
assumes for purposes of this analysis
that the percentages are the same.
The same research showed that the
median one-time cost of providing a
non-zero-cost accommodation was $300.
Only 7.2 percent of employers reported
that they provided an accommodation
that resulted in ongoing annual costs.
Because pregnancy is a temporary
condition, the ongoing costs incurred by
7.2 percent of employers are unlikely to
be applicable to pregnancy-related
accommodations, and the Commission
adopts $300 as the median one-time cost
for employers that incurred a cost (50.6
percent of employers). Again, although
the Commission believes that the
average cost is likely lower for
accommodations needed specifically for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, it will use the data
for the purposes of this analysis.
Because non-zero-cost
accommodations generally involve
durable goods such as additional stools,
infrastructure for telework, and
machines to help with lifting, and
because these goods generally have a
useful life of 5 years, the Commission
will assume that the annual cost of
providing these accommodations is
approximately $60 per year per
accommodation.460
Using these cost estimates, and
applying them to the upper and lower
bound estimates for the number of
additional accommodations that will
likely be required by the rule and
underlying statute, the estimated annual
costs (rounded to the nearest 1,000) for
private employers is between $12.60
million and $28.02 million; the
estimated annual costs for State and
local governments is between $1.68
million and $3.66 million, and the
estimated annual costs for the Federal
Government is between $540,000 and
$1.14 million. See Tables 6, 7, and 8.
BILLING CODE 6570–01–P

456 Additionally, some workplace modifications,
such as providing personal protective equipment,
and protecting employees from exposures to
hazardous chemicals, may already be required by
Federal or State workplace health and safety laws,
regardless of whether the employee is pregnant.
457 See Declercq et al., supra note 319, at 36. We
note that this study was conducted prior to many

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

PWFA-type laws being enacted. Because the data
are being used to estimate the number of requests
that will occur in States and localities that do not
already have PWFA-type laws, EEOC believes it is
appropriate to rely on this survey.
458 Id.; see also Long Over Due, supra note 395,
at 79 (statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-

PO 00000

Frm 00081

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4725

President, A Better Balance) (describing potential
accommodations).
459 Costs and Benefits of Accommodation, supra
note 209.
460 The Commission made a similar assumption
of a 5-year life for accommodations in its cost
analysis of the amendments to the ADA. 76 FR
16977, 16994 (Mar. 25, 2011).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.094</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Table 6: Estimated Reasonable Accommodation Costs to Private Employers with 15 or More Employees
Lower Bound Upper Bound
Cost of accommodation
(32%)
(71%)
416,000
923,000
Number of women needing accommodation
Number of non-zero-cost accommodations (50.6%)
210,000
467,000
$12.60 million $28.02 million
Annual cost of accommodation

29176

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Table 7: Estimated Reasonable Accommodation Costs to State and Local Government Employers
Cost of accommodation
Lower Bound Upper Bound
(32%)
(71%)
55,000
121,000
Number of women needing accommodation
Number of non-zero-cost accommodations (50.6%)
Annual cost of accommodation

28,000

61,000

$1.68 million

$3.66 million

Table 8: Estimated Reasonable Accommodation Costs to the Federal Government
Cost of accommodation
Lower Bound Upper Bound
(71%)
(32%)
Number of women needing accommodation
17,000
38,000
Number of non-zero-cost accommodations (50.6%)
Annual cost of accommodation

9,000

19,000

$540,000

$1.14 million

Table 9: One-Time Administrative Costs
Time for Rule
Familiarization
(b)

1.4 million

0.75 hours

Equal Opportunity
Officer Fully-Loaded
Wage
(c)
$113.51

Rule
Familiarization
Cost
(a) x (b) x (c)
$119.19 million

1.3 million

2.25 hours

$113.51

$332.03 million

3,255 461

0.75 hours

$76.03

$186,000

2,533 462

2.25 hours

$76.03

$433,000

209463

2.25 hours

$103.76464

$49,000

Total

$451.89 million

461 This is based on the distinct number of States
and local government filers of the 2021 EEO–4
survey where available, and the 2021 Annual
Survey of Public Employment & Payroll (ASPEP)
when not available.
462 Id.
463 See EEOC, Department of Agency List with
Second Level Reporting Components, https://

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

www.eeoc.gov/federal-sector/managementdirective/department-or-agency-list-second-levelreporting-components (last visited Mar. 25, 2024).
464 As described above, a GS–14, Step 5 salary is
$63.21 per hour. See U.S. Off. of Pers. Mgmt.,
Salary Table 2023-RUS (Jan. 2023), https://
www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/
salaries-wages/salary-tables/pdf/2023/RUS_h.pdf.
This is then adjusted for average hourly benefits for
Federal employees. See Cong. Budget Off.,
Comparing the Compensation of Federal and
Private-Sector Employees, 2011 to 2015, at 14 (Apr.
25, 2017), https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115thcongress-2017-2018/reports/52637federalprivatepay.pdf (reporting that the average

PO 00000

Frm 00082

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

estimated to be between $14.82 million
and $32.82 million annually.
benefits for Federal employees range from $21.30
per hour to $29.80 per hour). This analysis uses the
high estimate of $29.80 to compute the total hourly
compensation at $93.01 ($63.21 + $29.80). The
Commission was unable to find data on overhead
costs for the Federal Government. The Commission
assumed the rate to be the same as in the private
sector (17 percent), see supra note 467, totaling
$10.75 ($63.21 × 0.17) per hour. This resulted in a
fully-loaded hourly compensation rate of $103.76
(%63.21 + 29.80 + 10.75).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.097</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Thus, the overall economic cost on
the U.S. economy of providing
reasonable accommodations pursuant to
the rule and underlying statute is

ER19AP24.096</GPH>

BILLING CODE 6570–01–C

ER19AP24.095</GPH>

Private employers in
States with existing
PWFA-type laws
Private employers in
States without
existing PWFA-type
laws
Public employers in
States with existing
PWFA-laws
Public employers in
States without
existing PWFA-type
laws
Federal Government

Number of
Establishments
(a)

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
The costs in Tables 6, 7, and 8 likely
overestimate the costs to covered
entities in at least six respects:
• The estimated one-time cost of $300
per non-zero-cost accommodation is
based on costs of accommodations for
individuals with disabilities generally,
not only those related to pregnancy,
among the JAN survey respondents. The
Commission believes that the average
cost of accommodations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions is less than the
average cost of disability-related
accommodations because many of the
reasonable accommodations requested
under the PWFA will be simple and
inexpensive to provide, and the vast
majority will be temporary.
• The sample obtained in the JAN
study may not be representative of all
employers, because employers who
consult with JAN are likely to be facing
more difficult and costly
accommodation issues than employers
overall.465
• The estimate does not account for
the fact that some employees who will
be entitled to reasonable
accommodations under the PWFA and
the rule are independently entitled to
accommodations under the ADA or
Title VII, to break time and a private
place to pump at work under the PUMP
Act, and, in some cases, leave under the
FMLA or the Federal Employees Paid
Leave Act.466
• The estimate does not account for
the fact that some employers voluntarily
provide accommodations to employees
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions and may not
incur new costs.
• This analysis does not account for
the fact that not all employees who seek
accommodations will meet the
definition of ‘‘qualified,’’ and an
employer may decline to provide a
reasonable accommodation if doing so
creates an undue hardship.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

465 JAN provides free assistance regarding
workplace accommodation issues. See generally Job
Accommodation Network, https://askjan.org/ (last
visited Mar. 25, 2024).
466 Brown et al., supra note 377, at 6 (finding that
about 56 percent of U.S. employees were eligible for
FMLA in 2018, and 25 percent of the FMLA leave
taken in the prior 12 months accounted for the
arrival of a new child).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

The Commission did not include
costs related to processing requests for
accommodation in its estimate because
it expects these costs to be extremely
low. Employers that are covered by
State or local laws substantially similar
to the PWFA already have these
procedures in place. The Commission
assumes that employers not covered by
such State or local laws, and the Federal
Government, will adapt existing
procedures for providing
accommodations under Title VII and the
ADA and for providing leave under the
FMLA.
One-Time Administrative Costs for
Covered Entities
Administrative costs, which include
rule familiarization, posting new EEO
posters, and updating EEO policies and
handbooks, represent additional, onetime direct costs to covered entities.
It is estimated that in States that do
not already have laws substantially
similar to the PWFA, compliance
activities for a covered entity would
take an average of 135 minutes, or 2.25
hours, by an Equal Opportunity Officer
who is paid a fully-loaded wage of
$113.51 per hour 467 ($76.03 for a State
or local government employee).468 In
467 The Commission anticipates that the bulk of
the workload under this rule would be performed
by employees in occupations similar to those
associated with the Standard Occupational
Classification (SOC) code of SOC 11–3121 (Human
Resources Managers). According to the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics, the mean hourly wage rate for
Human Resources Managers in May 2022 was
$70.07. See U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Bureau of Lab. Stat.,
Employment of Human Resources Managers, by
State, May 2022 (2022), https://www.bls.gov/oes/
current/oes113121.htm#st. For this analysis, the
Commission used a fringe benefits rate of 45
percent and an overhead rate of 17 percent,
resulting in a fully-loaded hourly compensation rate
for Human Resources Managers of $113.51 ($70.07
+ ($70.07 × 0.45) + ($70.07 × 0.17)).
468 U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Bureau of Lab. Stat.,
Employer Costs for Employee Compensation for
State and Local Government Workers by
Occupational and Industry Group (Mar. 17, 2023),
https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_
03172023.pdf. Total employer compensation costs
for State and local government averaged $57.60 per
hour worked (see Table 3 row 1, column 1 of the
cited document). Average compensation ranged
from $68.57 in management, professional, and
related occupations (row 3) to $40.05 in sales and
office occupation (row 7). This analysis uses the
high estimate of $68.57 per hour worked, which
includes average wage and salary cost of $43.87 per
hour (row 3, column 3) and average benefit costs
of $24.70 per hour (row 3, column 5). The

PO 00000

Frm 00083

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29177

States with already existing laws similar
to the PWFA, an Equal Opportunity
Officer will take an average of 45
minutes for compliance activities. For
the Federal Government, which does
not have an existing PWFA, it is
estimated that compliance activities
would take an average of 135 minutes
by an Equal Opportunity Officer at a GS
14–5 salary.469 These calculations are
displayed in Table 9.
Totals and Discount Rates
Total costs for providing reasonable
accommodations in each year are
estimated by multiplying the number of
non-zero accommodations in Tables 6–
8 above by the upfront cost of $300.
Because these are assumed to be durable
accommodations, we assume that an
employer that acquires an
accommodation in a given year will
reuse the accommodation throughout its
useful life. Throughout the document,
we assume a useful life of 5 years,
which amounts to an average annual
cost of $60. To more accurately reflect
the present value of these upfront
expenses, EEOC annualizes the total
costs.
Adding the annualized cost of
providing reasonable accommodations,
assuming a useful life of 5 years
(between $14.82 million and $32.82
million), to the estimated administrative
costs in year 1 ($451.89 million) yields
estimated total costs of between $466.71
million and $484.71 million in the first
year, and between $14.82 million and
$32.82 million annually thereafter.
Table 10 provides the analysis of
discount rates at 3% and 7%, as
required by OMB Circular A–4, for the
lower and upper bound costs of
providing accommodations. Table 11
provides that information for the onetime administrative costs.
BILLING CODE 6570–01–P

Commission was not able to find data on overhead
costs for State and local governments. The
Commission assumed the rate to be the same as in
the private sector (17 percent), see supra note 467,
totaling $7.46 ($43.87 × 0.17) per hour. This
resulted in a fully-loaded hourly compensation rate
of $76.03 ($43.87 + $24.70 + $7.46).
469 In 2023, a GS–14, Step 5 salary is $63.21 per
hour. See U.S. Off. of Pers. Mgmt., Salary Table
2023–RUS (Jan. 2023), https://www.opm.gov/policydata-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/salarytables/pdf/2023/RUS_h.pdf.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29178

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
Table 10: Annualized Reasonable Accommodation Costs (in$ millions) at 0% (Undiscounted), 3% and 7%
Discount Rates 470

Assumin useful life of accommodations to be 5 ears
Annualized, 0% discount rate, 5 ears
$12.60
$0.54
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 5 ears
$13.36
$0.57
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 5 ears
$14.36
$0.62

$1.68
$1.78
$1.91

$14.82
$15.71
$16.89

costs

$18.3

$164.1

$3.66
$3.88
$4.17

$32.82
$34.79
$37.40

$1.83
$2.08
$2.44

$16.41
$18.68
$21.84

$140.1
$5.7
Assumin useful life of accommodations to be 5 ears
Annualized, 0% discount rate, 5 ears
$28.02
$1.14
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 5 ears
$29.70
$1.21
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 5 ears
$31.93
$1.30
Assumin useful life of accommodations to be 10 ears
Annualized, 0% discount rate, 10 ears
$14.01
$0.57
$15.95
$0.65
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 10 ears
$18.64
$0.76
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 10 ears
Table 11: Annualized Administrative Costs

1

$451.22

$0.049

$0.619

$451.89

2

$0

$0

$0

$0

3

$0

$0

$0

$0

4

$0

$0

$0

$0

5

$0

$0

$0

$0

6

$0

$0

$0

$0

7

$0

$0

$0

$0

8

$0

$0

$0

$0

9

$0

$0

$0

$0

10

$0

$0

$0

$0

Annualized, 3% discount rate, 10 years

$51.36

$0.006

$0.07

$51.44

Annualized, 7% discount rate, 10 years

$60.04

$0.007

$0.08

$60.13

$438.08

$0.05

$0.60

$438.73

$421.70

$0.05

$0.58

$422.33

Total, 3% discount rate, 10 years (in$
millions)
Total, 7% discount rate, 10 years (in$
millions)

VerDate Sep<11>2014

Total

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

PO 00000

Frm 00084

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4725

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.099</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Year

ER19AP24.098</GPH>

Estimated administrative costs (in$ millions)
Federal
State and Local
Private-All
Government
Government

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
BILLING CODE 6570–01–C

Time Horizon of Analysis
Neither the PWFA nor the rule
contains a sunset provision.
The cost analysis assumes a one-time
administrative cost for employers, and
the amount of time varies depending on
whether the employer is in a State with
or without its own version of the PWFA.
The cost and benefit analysis
calculates the annual cost of
accommodations per pregnant employee
who may need them. Because different
employees enter the labor market every
year and may become pregnant, or an
employee who was pregnant may
become pregnant again, the Commission
does not believe that the need for
accommodations or the costs or benefits
will substantially change over time.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Range of Regulatory Alternatives
The range of alternatives available to
the Commission consistent with the
Executive Order is narrow:
• Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a)
requires the Commission to issue
regulations, the Commission could not
consider non-regulatory alternatives.
• Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg
determines coverage, the Commission
could not consider exemptions based on
firm size or geography.
• Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2
provides how the statute will be
enforced, the Commission could not
consider alternative methods of
enforcement, such as market-oriented
approaches, performance standards,
default rules, monitoring by other
agencies, or reporting.
• Because section 109 of the PWFA
states when the law will go into effect,
the Commission could not consider
alternative compliance dates.471
Further, because the PWFA is a
Federal law that intentionally sets a
national standard, the Commission
could not consider deferring to State or
local regulations. The one exception to
this is that 42 U.S.C 2000gg–5(a)(1)
provides that nothing in the PWFA
invalidates or limits rights under
Federal, State, or local laws that provide
equal or greater protection for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The rule includes this
language. Thus, the rule does not
preempt State or local regulations that
provide equal or greater protection
relative to the PWFA.
470 Exec. Off. of the President, Off. of Mgmt. &
Budget, Circular A–4 (Sept. 17, 2003), https://
obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/circulars_
a004_a-4/ (addressing discount rates).
471 136 Stat. 6089.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

The Commission considered two
regulatory alternatives, discussed below.
The Commission does not believe that
either alternative would decrease the
costs for covered entities.
Definition of ‘‘In the Near Future’’
The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6)
defines a ‘‘qualified’’ employee to
include employees whose inability to
perform one or more essential functions
of the job is temporary, who will be able
to perform the essential functions ‘‘in
the near future,’’ and whose inability to
perform essential function(s) can be
reasonably accommodated without
undue hardship.
The final rule defines ‘‘in the near
future’’ to mean ‘‘generally within 40
weeks’’ for pregnancy only. The
Commission considered, but rejected,
shorter periods such as 6 months or
less 472 for several reasons. First,
pregnancy generally lasts 40 weeks; a
rule that an employee is only
‘‘qualified’’ if they are able to perform
all the essential functions of the job
within 6 months of the function(s) being
temporarily suspended could classify
many employees who need a temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
for a longer period as ‘‘unqualified’’ and
therefore ineligible for reasonable
accommodations. The Commission
believes that this outcome would
frustrate the purpose of the statute,
which is to enable employees who need
temporary accommodations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to continue working.
Second, defining ‘‘in the near future’’
to mean ‘‘generally 40 weeks’’ for
pregnancy does not mean that the
employer will be required to actually
provide a reasonable accommodation for
that length of time. The definition of ‘‘in
the near future’’ is one step in the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’; even if an
employee can meet this part of the
definition, an employer still may refuse
to provide an accommodation if the
employer cannot reasonably
accommodate the temporary suspension
of the essential function or if doing so
would impose ‘‘undue hardship’’
(defined as significant difficulty or
expense, relative to the employer’s
overall resources). Additionally, not all
employees who need an essential
function(s) suspended will need it
suspended for 40 weeks. It is the
Commission’s hope that setting a single
472 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 28 (citing
Robert, 691 F.3d at 1218). Although it does not
define ‘‘in the near future,’’ Robert cites to Epps,
353 F.3d at 593, which found that under the ADA,
a request for leave that would last 6 months was
too long to be ‘‘in the near future’’ to qualify as a
possible reasonable accommodation.

PO 00000

Frm 00085

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29179

standard for the meaning of ‘‘in the near
future’’ for pregnancy will benefit both
employers and employees by reducing
litigation over the meaning of the term
and placing the focus on the central
issue of whether the accommodation
would impose an undue hardship.
If the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is
‘‘generally 40 weeks’’ rather than ‘‘less
than 6 months,’’ more pregnant
employees will be able to meet the
definition of qualified. It is not possible
to estimate how many. The Commission
anticipates that there will be little or no
additional cost to covered entities
because it is the act of providing an
accommodation—not classifying an
individual as meeting part of the
definition of qualified—that imposes
actual costs on the employer. A covered
entity can still argue that the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship. Further, even if it
provides the accommodation, the
covered entity is likely to experience
cost savings from not having to recruit,
hire, or train a new employee.
The Commission also considered not
defining the term ‘‘in the near future,’’
but determined that doing so would
harm employers by increasing
uncertainty and harm employees by
failing to ensure equal treatment.
Predictable Assessments
In the section defining ‘‘undue
hardship,’’ the rule lists four job
modifications often sought by pregnant
employees that, in virtually all cases,
will be found to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose
undue hardship: (1) carrying or keeping
water near and drinking, as needed; (2)
allowing additional restroom breaks, as
needed; (3) allowing sitting for those
whose work requires standing and
standing for those whose work requires
sitting, as needed; and (4) allowing
breaks to eat and drink, as needed.
As explained in the NPRM, these
accommodations are repeatedly
discussed in the PWFA’s legislative
history as common sense, low-cost
accommodations that most pregnant
employees will need.473 To increase
473 See H.R. Rep.117–27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29, 113;
Fighting for Fairness, supra note 394, at 4
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici); Long Over
Due, supra note 395, at 7 (statement of Rep. Jerrold
Nadler), 25 (statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice President
of Government Affairs & Public Policy, Greater
Louisville, Inc., The Metro Chamber of Commerce),
83 (statement of Rep. Barbara Lee). See also 168
Cong. Rec. H10,527 (daily ed. Dec. 23, 2022)
(statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 168 Cong. Rec.
S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen.
Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S7,079 (daily
ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey,
Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. H2,324 (daily ed. May 14, 2021)
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29180

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

efficiency and to decrease the time that
it takes for employees to receive these
accommodations, the Commission has
determined that these modifications
will in virtually all cases be determined
to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose an undue hardship.
As an alternative to providing that
these simple, common-sense
modifications will virtually always be
determined to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose
undue hardship, the Commission
considered taking the position that such
modifications would always be
reasonable accommodations and never
impose undue hardship. The
Commission decided against this
approach because some employers may
encounter circumstances that would
lead to a determination that these
modifications are not reasonable
accommodations and/or would impose
an undue hardship.
The Commission also considered the
option of not including information
regarding ‘‘predictable assessments’’ in
the rule. The Commission determined
that providing this information will be
helpful to the public because doing so
explains to covered entities and
employees how the Commission intends
to enforce the PWFA, potentially
increases voluntary compliance, and
increases certainty for covered entities,
which will decrease costs.
The Commission does not anticipate
that the rule’s ‘‘predictable
assessments’’ section would increase
costs for covered entities. The examples
given are low- to no-cost
accommodations, and under the rule,
the employer may still claim that these
modifications would impose an undue
hardship.
Uncertainty in Benefits, Costs, and Net
Benefits
The Commission has based its
estimates of the costs and benefits of the
rule on the best data available to it at the
current time. Nevertheless, the
Commission recognizes these estimates
are somewhat uncertain in several
respects.
The data used to estimate the cost of
providing accommodations as required
by the PWFA come entirely from
research on the cost of accommodations
for individuals with disabilities; the
Commission is not aware of any data
concerning the cost of accommodations
that relate specifically to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The reliance on ADA data
has likely resulted in an inflated cost
estimate. As discussed above, the
Commission believes that the
percentage of accommodations that do

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

not cost anything to implement is likely
to be higher for accommodations related
specifically to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions than for
accommodations needed because of a
disability. Additionally, in some cases,
an individual who is entitled to an
accommodation under the PWFA may
be entitled to it under another law or
policy. For example, although leave
often may be needed for recovery from
childbirth, Bureau of Labor Statistics
data show that 88 percent of employees
already have access to some unpaid
family leave independent of the PWFA,
either through the FMLA or
otherwise.474 Therefore, with respect to
these individuals, any costs attributable
to or benefits accruing from the PWFA
for leave related to childbirth would be
limited to the short period of time
during which such leave is required due
to childbirth but unavailable from those
other sources.
Conclusion
As detailed above, the estimated
annual cost of providing
accommodations required by the rule
and underlying statute—but not
independently required by a State or
local law substantially similar to the
PWFA—is estimated to be up to $28.02
million for private employers, up to
$3.66 million for State and local
governments, and up to $1.14 million
for the Federal Government. In addition,
employers are expected to face one-time
costs associated with complying with
the rule and underlying statute. These
are estimated to be $451.22 million for
private employers ($119.19 million for
private employers in States with
existing PWFA-type laws + $332.03
million for private employers in States
without existing PWFA-type laws),
$619,000 for State and local
governments ($186,000 for public
employers in States with existing
PWFA-type laws + $433,000 for public
employers in States without existing
PWFA-type laws), and $49,000 for the
Federal Government.
These figures are almost certainly
overestimates of the costs imposed by
the rule, in part because some of the
accommodations required by the rule
and underlying statute are already
required under the ADA and Title VII
and some employers voluntarily provide
accommodations. Due to a lack of data,
however, the Commission was unable to
account for this overlap in the above
analysis.
474 U.S. Dep’t of Labor, Bureau of Lab. Stat.,
Access to Paid and Unpaid Family Leave in 2018
(Feb. 27, 2019), https://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2019/
access-to-paid-and-unpaid-family-leave-in2018.htm.

PO 00000

Frm 00086

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

The Commission has nevertheless
determined that the benefits of the rule
and underlying statute justify its
costs.475 The annual costs associated
with the main requirement of the rule—
to give reasonable accommodations to
individuals who need them because of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions—are not significant
under section 3(f)(1) of E.O. 12866. And
although the aggregate one-time
compliance costs are in excess of $200
million, and therefore significant, the
estimated cost on a per-establishment
basis is low—between $57.02 and
$255.40, depending on whether or not
the State in which the entity is located
has a law substantially similar to the
PWFA and on the type of employer.
The benefits of the rule and
underlying statute to employees affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, however, are
significant, including improved health,
improved economic security, and
increased equity, human dignity, and
fairness. The number of individuals
who may experience such benefits is
relatively large—the number of
employees who will be newly entitled
to reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy and may need them is
estimated to be between approximately
488,000 and 1.082 million per year. This
number does not include the children,
family members, and members of
society at large who also will potentially
enjoy some of the benefits listed above.
The Commission further concludes
that the rule is tailored to impose the
least burden on society consistent with
achieving the regulatory objectives, and
that the agency has selected the
approach that maximizes net benefits.
The range of alternatives available to the
Commission was extremely limited. The
alternatives that were consistent with
the PWFA’s statutory language would
not, in the Commission’s opinion,
reduce costs to employers.
Regulatory Flexibility Act and
Executive Order 13272 (Proper
Consideration of Small Entities in
Agency Rulemaking)
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA),
5 U.S.C. 601–612, requires the
Commission to evaluate the economic
impact of this rule on small entities. The
RFA defines small entities to include
small businesses, small organizations,
including not-for-profit organizations,
and small governmental jurisdictions.
The Commission must determine
whether the rule would impose a
significant economic impact on a
475 76 FR 3821 (Jan. 21, 2011).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
substantial number of such small
entities.
When an agency issues a rulemaking
proposal, the RFA requires the agency to
‘‘prepare and make available for public
comment an initial regulatory flexibility
analysis’’ which will ‘‘describe the
impact of the rule on small entities.’’ 476
Section 605 of the RFA allows an
agency to certify a rule, in lieu of
preparing an analysis, if the rulemaking
is not expected to have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities. For the
reasons outlined below, the Chair of the
Commission hereby certifies that this
rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities.
Small businesses range in size, based
on the industry, between 1 to 1,500
employees; 477 the PWFA and the rule

apply to all employers in the United
States with 15 or more employees. Thus,
for purposes of the RFA, the
Commission has determined that the
regulation will have an economic
impact on a substantial number of small
entities.478
However, the Commission has
determined that the economic impact on
entities affected by the PWFA and the
rule will not be ‘‘significant.’’
As detailed in the FRIA above, the
impact on small entities in States and
localities that have laws substantially
similar to the PWFA will be limited to
a one-time administrative cost of
approximately $85.13 in the first year
for small private employers (0.75 hours
× $113.51 hourly wage), and $57.02 for
small State or local government
employers (0.75 hours × $76.03 hourly
wage). Since these entities are already

29181

required to provide accommodations
consistent with the PWFA, they will
face no additional costs for
accommodations.
Small entities that are not already
subject to State or local laws
substantially similar to the PWFA will
face a one-time administrative cost of
approximately $255.40 for private
employers (2.25 hours × $113.51 hourly
wage) and $171.07 for State or local
government employers (2.25 hours ×
$76.03 hourly wage), plus annual costs
associated with providing reasonable
accommodations consistent with the
rule and underlying statute. To calculate
the cost of providing such
accommodations, the Commission has
constructed cost estimates for a range of
small business sizes.

Table 12: Annual Costs for Reasonable Accommodations for Small Businesses Based on Size
7.1%
50.6% Non-ZeroNeeding
Total Expected Cost:
Number of 33%
Accommodations: 32%
Employees Women
Pregnant
Cost
Lower Bound
Aged 16- In a
(Lower Bound Estimate) Accommodations:
Estimate - Higher
- 71 % (Upper Bound
Lower Bound
Bound Estimate
50
Given
Year
Estimate)
Estimate - Higher
Bound Estimate
(Rounded Up)
15
4.95
0.351
0.112 - 0.249
1
$60

16.5
33
49.5
66
82.5
165
247.5
330
412.5
495

Using the amounts for a small entity
with 500 employees as an example, the
calculation was conducted as follows:
• Based on data outlined in the FRIA
above, the Commission estimates that
approximately 33 percent, or 165, of
these employees are women of
reproductive age (aged 16–50 years),479
and that approximately 7.1 percent of
these, or 11.715 employees, will give
birth to at least one child during a given
year.
476 5 U.S.C. 603(a).
477 U.S. Small Bus. Admin., Table of Size

Standards (Mar. 17, 2023), https://www.sba.gov/
document/support-table-size-standards.
478 For example, there are over 1 million
businesses with between 20 and 500 employees.
See U.S. Dep’t of Com., Census Bureau, Small

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

0.375 - 0.832
0.749-1.66
1.124 - 2.496
1.5 - 3.327
1.875 - 4.159
3.749-8.318
5.623 - 12.477
7.498 - 16.635
9.372-20.794
11.246 - 24.953

1.172
2.34
3.515
4.686
5.858
11.715
17.573
23.43
29.288
35.145

Jkt 262001

1
1
1-2
1-2
1-3
2-5
3-7
4-9
5 -11
6-13

$60
$60
$60-$120
$60-$120
$60-$180
$120-$300
$180-$420
$240-$540
$300-$660
$360-$780

• The Commission again adopts 71
percent as its upper bound estimate and
32 percent as its lower bound estimate
of the percentage of pregnant employees
who will need a reasonable
accommodation related to pregnancy.
• Thus, the Commission estimates
that between 3.749 (32 percent of
11.715) and 8.318 (71 percent of 11.715)
employees of a small entity with 500
employees will require annually a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA.

• The Commission further assumes,
based on data regarding the average cost
of reasonable accommodations for
individuals with disabilities presented
in the FRIA above, that 50.6 percent of
the required accommodations will have
a non-zero cost.
• This yields lower and upper bound
estimates of the number of non-zero-cost
accommodations of 1.9 (50.6 percent of
3.749) and 4.21 (50.6 percent of 8.318),
respectively. Rounding up these
numbers, the Commission estimates that

Business Week: April 30–May 6, 2023 (Apr. 30,
2023), https://www.census.gov/newsroom/stories/
small-business-week.html.
479 The Commission acknowledges that there may
be industries in which the representation rate for
individuals capable of giving birth is higher than 33
percent. The Commission has determined, however,
that these differences are not large enough to affect

the decision to certify that the final rule will not
have a significant economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities. For a discussion in the
response to comments received, see supra,
Summary of the Commission’s Certification That
the Rule Will Not Have a Significant Economic
Impact on a Substantial Number of Small Entities
in the preamble.

PO 00000

Frm 00087

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

ER19AP24.100</GPH>

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

50
100
150
200
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500

29182

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

a small entity with 500 employees will
be required to provide between 2 and 5
additional non-zero-cost
accommodations per year as a result of
the rule and underlying statute.
Multiplying by an average cost of $60
per year for each accommodation, the
estimated total cost for accommodations
required under the PWFA per small
entity with 500 employees is between
$120 and $300.
Thus, the annual cost of providing
reasonable accommodations for entities
not already subject to State or local laws
substantially similar to the PWFA is
estimated to be between $60 (lower
bound estimate, for entities with 15
employees) and $780 (upper bound
estimate, for entities with 1,500
employees).
The costs detailed above are not likely
to constitute a ‘‘significant’’ economic
impact for many small entities, if any.
Further, the Commission notes that all
businesses in the United States with 15
or more employees already must comply
with Title VII and the ADA, both of
which could, in certain circumstances,
require accommodations for employees
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. Further,
Title VII, the ADA, and State laws
requiring accommodations for
pregnancy apply to all industries; given
that, the Commission does not believe
that the PWFA will have a greater effect
in any industry.
Accordingly, the Chair of the
Commission hereby certifies that this
rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Paperwork Reduction Act
The Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. (PRA),
requires the EEOC to consider the
impact of information collection
burdens imposed on the public. The
PRA typically requires an agency to
provide notice and seek public
comments on any ‘‘collection of
information’’ contained in a rule.480
The Commission has determined that
there is no new requirement for
information collection associated with
this rule.
Consequently, this rule does not
require review by the Office of
Management and Budget under the
authority of the PRA.
Executive Order 13132 (Federalism)
The Commission has reviewed this
rule in accordance with Executive Order
13132 regarding federalism and has
determined that it does not have
480 See 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B); 5 CFR 1320.8.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

‘‘federalism implications.’’ The statute
at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2) provides that the
PWFA applies to employers as that term
is defined in Title VII. States and local
governments are subject to Title VII,
including its prohibition on sex
discrimination, which includes
discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The statute at 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–4 provides that a State will not
be immune under the 11th Amendment
to actions brought under the PWFA in
a court of competent jurisdiction and
that in any action against a State for a
violation of the PWFA, remedies,
including remedies both at law and in
equity, are available for such violation
to the same extent that they are
available against any other public or
private entity. The rule does not limit or
expand these statutory definitions.
Additionally, the regulation will not
have substantial direct effects ‘‘on the
relationship between the national
government and the States, or on the
distribution of power and
responsibilities among the various
levels of government.’’
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of
1995
Section 202(a) of the Unfunded
Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA)
requires that the Commission determine
whether a regulation proposes a Federal
mandate that may result in the
expenditure by State, local, or tribal
governments, in the aggregate, or by the
private sector, of $100 million or more
in a single year (adjusted annually for
inflation). However, 2 U.S.C. 1503
excludes from UMRA’s ambit any
provision in a final regulation that,
among other things, enforces
constitutional rights of individuals or
establishes or enforces any statutory
rights that prohibit discrimination on
the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age, handicap, or
disability; thus, UMRA does not apply
to the PWFA.481

Assessment of Federal Regulations and
Policies on Families
The undersigned hereby certifies that
the rule will not adversely affect the
well-being of families, as discussed
under section 654 of the Treasury and
General Government Appropriations
Act of 1999. To the contrary, by
providing reasonable accommodation to
employees with known limitations
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, absent undue
hardship, the rule will have a positive
effect on the economic well-being and
security of families.
Executive Order 13175 (Indian Tribal
Governments)
This rule does not have tribal
implications under Executive Order
13175 that require a tribal summary
impact statement. The rule will not have
substantial direct effects on one or more
Indian tribes, on the relationship
between the Federal Government and
Indian tribes, or on the distribution of
power and responsibilities between the
Federal Government and Indian tribes.
The definition of ‘‘covered entity’’ in the
PWFA follows that of Title VII; Title VII
exempts ‘‘a corporation wholly owned
by an Indian tribe.’’ 482
Executive Order 12988 (Civil Justice
Reform)
This rule was drafted and reviewed in
accordance with Executive Order 12988
and will not unduly burden the Federal
court system. The rule was: (1) reviewed
to eliminate drafting errors and
ambiguities; (2) written to minimize
litigation; and (3) written to provide a
clear legal standard for affected conduct
and to promote burden reduction.
List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 1636
Administrative practice and
procedure, Equal employment
opportunity, Reasonable
accommodation, Pregnancy.
For the Commission.
Charlotte A. Burrows,
Chair.

Plain Language

■ For the reasons set forth in the

The Commission has attempted to
draft this final rule in plain language.

preamble, the EEOC amends 29 CFR
chapter XIV by adding part 1636 to read
as follows:

481 H.R. Report No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 41
(containing a report by the Congressional Budget
Office stating that the PWFA was not reviewed ‘‘for
intergovernmental or private-sector mandates’’
because it falls within the exception to the
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act as it ‘‘would
extend protections against discrimination in the
workplace based on sex to employees requesting
reasonable accommodation for pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00088

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

PART 1636—PREGNANT WORKERS
FAIRNESS ACT
Sec.
1636.1
1636.2
1636.3

Purpose.
Definitions—general.
Definitions—specific to the PWFA.

482 42 U.S.C. 2000e(b).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
1636.4 Nondiscrimination with regard to
reasonable accommodations related to
pregnancy.
1636.5 Remedies and enforcement.
1636.6 Waiver of State immunity.
1636.7 Relationship to other laws.
1636.8 Severability.
Appendix A to Part 1636—Interpretive
Guidance on the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act
Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2000gg et seq.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

§ 1636.1

Purpose.

(a) The purpose of this part is to
implement the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg et seq.
(PWFA).
(b) The PWFA:
(1) Requires a covered entity to make
reasonable accommodation to the
known limitations of a qualified
employee related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions, absent undue hardship;
(2) Prohibits a covered entity from
requiring a qualified employee to accept
an accommodation, other than a
reasonable accommodation arrived at
through the interactive process;
(3) Prohibits the denial of
employment opportunities based on the
need of the covered entity to make
reasonable accommodation to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of a qualified
employee;
(4) Prohibits a covered entity from
requiring a qualified employee to take
leave if another reasonable
accommodation can be provided to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of the employee;
(5) Prohibits a covered entity from
taking adverse actions in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment
against a qualified employee on account
of the employee requesting or using a
reasonable accommodation for known
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions;
(6) Prohibits discrimination against an
employee for opposing unlawful
discrimination under the PWFA or
participating in a proceeding under the
PWFA;
(7) Prohibits coercion of individuals
in the exercise of their rights under the
PWFA; and
(8) Provides remedies for individuals
whose rights under the PWFA are
violated.
§ 1636.2

Definitions—general.

(a) Commission means the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
established by section 705 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–4.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

(b) Covered entity means respondent
as defined in section 701(n) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e(n),
and includes:
(1) Employer, which is a person
engaged in an industry affecting
commerce who has 15 or more
employees, as defined in section 701(b)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e(b);
(2) Employing office, as defined in
section 101 of the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C.
1301, and 3 U.S.C. 411(c);
(3) An entity employing a State
employee (or the employee of a political
subdivision of a State) described in
section 304(a) of the Government
Employee Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16c(a); and
(4) An entity to which section 717(a)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16(a), applies.
(c) Employee means:
(1) An employee (including an
applicant), as defined in section 701(f)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e(f);
(2) [Reserved]
(3) A covered employee (including an
applicant), as defined in 3 U.S.C. 411(c);
(4) A State employee (including an
applicant) (or the employee or applicant
of a political subdivision of a State)
described in section 304(a) of the
Government Employee Rights Act of
1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16c(a); and
(5) An employee (including an
applicant) to which section 717(a) of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16(a), applies.
(d) Person means person as defined by
section 701(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e(a).
§ 1636.3
PWFA.

Definitions—specific to the

(a) Known limitation. Known
limitation means a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions that the
employee or the employee’s
representative has communicated to the
covered entity, whether or not such
condition meets the definition of
disability specified in section 3 of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
42 U.S.C. 12102.
(1) Known, in terms of limitation,
means the employee or the employee’s
representative has communicated the
limitation to the employer.
(2) Limitation means a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions, of the
specific employee in question.
‘‘Physical or mental condition’’ is an

PO 00000

Frm 00089

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29183

impediment or problem that may be
modest, minor, and/or episodic. The
physical or mental condition may be
that an employee affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
has a need or a problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of
the pregnancy. The definition also
includes when an employee is seeking
health care related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical
condition itself. The physical or mental
condition can be a limitation whether or
not such condition meets the definition
of disability specified in section 3 of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
42 U.S.C. 12102.
(b) Pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. ‘‘Pregnancy’’ and
‘‘childbirth’’ refer to the pregnancy or
childbirth of the specific employee in
question and include, but are not
limited to, current pregnancy; past
pregnancy; potential or intended
pregnancy (which can include
infertility, fertility treatment, and the
use of contraception); labor; and
childbirth (including vaginal and
cesarean delivery). ‘‘Related medical
conditions’’ are medical conditions
relating to the pregnancy or childbirth
of the specific employee in question.
The following are examples of
conditions that are, or may be, ‘‘related
medical conditions’’: termination of
pregnancy, including via miscarriage,
stillbirth, or abortion; ectopic
pregnancy; preterm labor; pelvic
prolapse; nerve injuries; cesarean or
perineal wound infection; maternal
cardiometabolic disease; gestational
diabetes; preeclampsia; HELLP
(hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and
low platelets) syndrome; hyperemesis
gravidarum; anemia; endometriosis;
sciatica; lumbar lordosis; carpal tunnel
syndrome; chronic migraines;
dehydration; hemorrhoids; nausea or
vomiting; edema of the legs, ankles, feet,
or fingers; high blood pressure;
infection; antenatal (during pregnancy)
anxiety, depression, or psychosis;
postpartum depression, anxiety, or
psychosis; frequent urination;
incontinence; loss of balance; vision
changes; varicose veins; changes in
hormone levels; vaginal bleeding;
menstruation; and lactation and
conditions related to lactation, such as
low milk supply, engorgement, plugged
ducts, mastitis, or fungal infections.
This list is non-exhaustive.
(c) Employee’s representative.
Employee’s representative means a
family member, friend, union
representative, health care provider, or
other representative of the employee.
(d) Communicated to the employer.
Communicated to the employer, with

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29184

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

respect to a known limitation, means an
employee or the employee’s
representative has made the employer
aware of the limitation by
communicating with a supervisor, a
manager, someone who has supervisory
authority for the employee or who
regularly directs the employee’s tasks
(or the equivalent for an applicant),
human resources personnel, or another
appropriate official, or by following the
steps in the covered entity’s policy to
request an accommodation.
(1) The communication may be made
orally, in writing, or by another effective
means.
(2) The communication need not be in
writing, be in a specific format, use
specific words, or be on a specific form
in order for it to be considered
‘‘communicated to the employer.’’
(e) Consideration of mitigating
measures. (1) The determination of
whether an employee has a limitation
shall be made without regard to the
ameliorative effects of mitigating
measures.
(2) The non-ameliorative effects of
mitigating measures, such as negative
side effects of medication or burdens
associated with following a particular
treatment regimen, may be considered
when determining whether an employee
has a limitation.
(f) Qualified employee. Qualified
employee with respect to an employee
with a known limitation under the
PWFA means:
(1) An employee who, with or without
reasonable accommodation, can perform
the essential functions of the
employment position. With respect to
leave as an accommodation, the relevant
inquiry is whether the employee is
reasonably expected to be able to
perform the essential functions, with or
without a reasonable accommodation, at
the end of the leave, if time off is
granted, or if the employee is qualified
as set out in paragraph (f)(2) of this
section after returning from leave.
(2) Additionally, an employee shall be
considered qualified if they cannot
perform one or more essential functions
if:
(i) Any inability to perform an
essential function(s) is for a temporary
period, where ‘‘temporary’’ means
lasting for a limited time, not
permanent, and may extend beyond ‘‘in
the near future’’;
(ii) The essential function(s) could be
performed in the near future. This
determination is made on a case-by-case
basis. If the employee is pregnant, it is
presumed that the employee could
perform the essential function(s) in the
near future because they could perform
the essential function(s) within

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

generally 40 weeks of its suspension;
and
(iii) The inability to perform the
essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated. This may be
accomplished by temporary suspension
of the essential function(s) and the
employee performing the remaining
functions of their position or, depending
on the position, other arrangements,
including, but not limited to: the
employee performing the remaining
functions of their position and other
functions assigned by the covered
entity; the employee performing the
functions of a different job to which the
covered entity temporarily transfers or
assigns the employee; or the employee
being assigned to light duty or modified
duty or participating in the covered
entity’s light or modified duty program.
(g) Essential functions. Essential
functions mean the fundamental job
duties of the employment position the
employee with a known limitation
under the PWFA holds or desires. The
term ‘‘essential functions’’ does not
include the marginal functions of the
position.
(1) A job function may be considered
essential for any of several reasons,
including but not limited to the
following:
(i) The function may be essential
because the reason the position exists is
to perform that function;
(ii) The function may be essential
because of the limited number of
employees available among whom the
performance of that job function can be
distributed; and/or
(iii) The function may be highly
specialized so that the incumbent in the
position is hired for their expertise or
ability to perform the particular
function.
(2) Evidence of whether a particular
function is essential includes, but is not
limited to:
(i) The employer’s judgment as to
which functions are essential;
(ii) Written job descriptions prepared
before advertising or interviewing
applicants for the job;
(iii) The amount of time that would be
spent on the job performing the function
during the time the requested
accommodation will be in effect;
(iv) The consequences of not requiring
the incumbent to perform the function;
(v) The terms of a collective
bargaining agreement;
(vi) The work experience of past
incumbents in the job; and/or
(vii) The current work experience of
incumbents in similar jobs.
(h) Reasonable accommodation—
generally. (1) With respect to an
employee or applicant with a known

PO 00000

Frm 00090

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

limitation under the PWFA, reasonable
accommodation includes:
(i) Modifications or adjustments to a
job application process that enable a
qualified applicant with a known
limitation under the PWFA to be
considered for the position such
qualified applicant desires;
(ii) Modifications or adjustments to
the work environment, or to the manner
or circumstances under which the
position held or desired is customarily
performed, that enable a qualified
employee with a known limitation
under the PWFA to perform the
essential functions of that position;
(iii) Modifications or adjustments that
enable a covered entity’s employee with
a known limitation under the PWFA to
enjoy equal benefits and privileges of
employment as are enjoyed by its other
similarly situated employees without
known limitations; or
(iv) Temporary suspension of
essential function(s) and/or
modifications or adjustments that
permit the temporary suspension of
essential function(s).
(2) To request a reasonable
accommodation, the employee or the
employee’s representative need only
communicate to the covered entity that
the employee needs an adjustment or
change at work due to their limitation
(a physical or mental condition related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions).
(i) The communication may be made
to any of the individuals in paragraph
(d) of this section. The provisions of
paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section,
which define what it means to
communicate a limitation to a covered
entity, apply to communications under
this paragraph (h)(2).
(ii) An employee’s request does not
have to identify a medical condition,
whether from paragraph (b) of this
section or otherwise, or use medical
terms.
(3) To determine the appropriate
reasonable accommodation, it may be
necessary for the covered entity to
initiate an informal, interactive process
as explained in paragraph (k) of this
section.
(i) Reasonable accommodation—
examples. Reasonable accommodation
may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Making existing facilities used by
employees readily accessible to and
usable by employees with known
limitations under the PWFA;
(2) Job restructuring; part-time or
modified work schedules; reassignment
to a vacant position; breaks for use of
the restroom, drinking, eating, and/or
resting; acquisition or modification of

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
equipment, uniforms, or devices,
including devices that assist with lifting
or carrying for jobs that involve lifting
or carrying; modifying the work
environment; providing seating for jobs
that require standing, or allowing
standing for jobs that require sitting;
appropriate adjustment or modifications
of examinations or policies; permitting
the use of paid leave (whether accrued,
as part of a short-term disability
program, or any other employer benefit)
or providing unpaid leave for reasons
including, but not limited to, recovery
from childbirth, miscarriage, stillbirth,
or medical conditions related to
pregnancy or childbirth, or to attend
health care appointments or receive
health care treatment related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; placement in the
covered entity’s light or modified duty
program or assignment to light duty or
modified work; telework, remote work,
or change of work site; adjustments to
allow an employee to work without
increased pain or increased risk to the
employee’s health or the health of the
pregnancy; temporarily suspending one
or more essential functions of the
position; providing a reserved parking
space if the employee is otherwise
entitled to use employer-provided
parking; and other similar
accommodations for employees with
known limitations under the PWFA.
(3) The reasonable accommodation of
leave includes, but is not limited to, the
examples in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through
(iii) of this section.
(i) The ability to use paid leave
(whether accrued, short-term disability,
or another employer benefit) or unpaid
leave, including, but not limited to,
leave during pregnancy; to recover from
childbirth, miscarriage, stillbirth, or
other related medical conditions; and to
attend health care appointments or
receive health care treatments related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions;
(ii) The ability to use paid leave
(whether accrued, short-term disability,
or another employer benefit) or unpaid
leave for a known limitation under the
PWFA; and
(iii) The ability to choose whether to
use paid leave (whether accrued, shortterm disability or another employer
benefit) or unpaid leave to the extent
that the covered entity allows
employees using leave for reasons not
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to choose between
the use of paid leave and unpaid leave.
(4) Reasonable accommodation
related to lactation includes, but is not
limited to:

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

(i) Breaks, a space for lactation, and
other related modifications as required
under the Providing Urgent Maternal
Protections for Nursing Mothers Act
(PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328, Div. KK,
136 Stat. 4459, 6093 (2022)), if not
otherwise provided under the PUMP
Act;
(ii) Accommodations related to
pumping, such as, but not limited to,
ensuring that the area for lactation is in
reasonable proximity to the employee’s
usual work area; that it is a place other
than a bathroom; that it is shielded from
view and free from intrusion; that it is
regularly cleaned; that it has electricity,
appropriate seating, and a surface
sufficient to place a breast pump; and
that it is in reasonable proximity to a
sink, running water, and a refrigerator
for storing milk;
(iii) Accommodations related to
nursing during work hours (where the
regular location of the employee’s
workplace makes nursing during work
hours a possibility because the child is
in close proximity); and
(iv) Other reasonable
accommodations, including those listed
in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this
section.
(5) The temporary suspension of one
or more essential functions of the
position in question, as defined in
paragraph (g) of this section, is a
reasonable accommodation if an
employee with a known limitation
under the PWFA is unable to perform
one or more essential functions with or
without a reasonable accommodation
and the conditions set forth in
paragraph (f)(2) of this section are met.
(j) Undue hardship—(1) In general.
Undue hardship means, with respect to
the provision of an accommodation,
significant difficulty or expense
incurred by a covered entity, when
considered in light of the factors set
forth in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(2) Factors to be considered. In
determining whether an accommodation
would impose an undue hardship on a
covered entity, factors to be considered,
with no one factor to be dispositive,
include:
(i) The nature and net cost of the
accommodation needed under the
PWFA;
(ii) The overall financial resources of
the facility or facilities involved in the
provision of the reasonable
accommodation, the number of persons
employed at such facility, and the effect
on expenses and resources;
(iii) The overall financial resources of
the covered entity, the overall size of the
business of the covered entity with
respect to the number of its employees,

PO 00000

Frm 00091

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29185

and the number, type, and location of its
facilities;
(iv) The type of operation or
operations of the covered entity,
including the composition, structure,
and functions of the workforce of such
entity, and the geographic separateness
and administrative or fiscal relationship
of the facility or facilities in question to
the covered entity; and
(v) The impact of the accommodation
upon the operation of the facility,
including the impact on the ability of
other employees to perform their duties
and the impact on the facility’s ability
to conduct business.
(3) Temporary suspension of an
essential function(s). If an employee
with a known limitation under the
PWFA meets the definition of ‘‘qualified
employee’’ under paragraph (f)(2) of this
section and needs one or more essential
functions of the relevant position to be
temporarily suspended, the covered
entity must provide the accommodation
unless doing so would impose an undue
hardship on the covered entity when
considered in light of the factors
provided in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through
(v) of this section as well as the
following additional factors where they
are relevant and with no one factor to
be dispositive:
(i) The length of time that the
employee will be unable to perform the
essential function(s);
(ii) Whether, through the factors listed
in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section or
otherwise, there is work for the
employee to accomplish;
(iii) The nature of the essential
function(s), including its frequency;
(iv) Whether the covered entity has
provided other employees in similar
positions who are unable to perform the
essential function(s) of their position
with temporary suspensions of the
essential function(s);
(v) If necessary, whether there are
other employees, temporary employees,
or third parties who can perform or be
hired to perform the essential
function(s); and
(vi) Whether the essential function(s)
can be postponed or remain
unperformed for any length of time and,
if so, for how long.
(4) Predictable assessments. The
individualized assessment of whether a
modification listed in paragraphs
(j)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section is a
reasonable accommodation that would
cause undue hardship will, in virtually
all cases, result in a determination that
the four modifications are reasonable
accommodations that will not impose
an undue hardship under the PWFA
when they are requested as workplace
accommodations by an employee who is

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29186

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

pregnant. Therefore, with respect to
these modifications, the individualized
assessment should be particularly
simple and straightforward:
(i) Allowing an employee to carry or
keep water near and drink, as needed;
(ii) Allowing an employee to take
additional restroom breaks, as needed;
(iii) Allowing an employee whose
work requires standing to sit and whose
work requires sitting to stand, as
needed; and
(iv) Allowing an employee to take
breaks to eat and drink, as needed.
(k) Interactive process. Interactive
process means an informal, interactive
process between the covered entity and
the employee seeking an
accommodation under the PWFA. This
process should identify the known
limitation under the PWFA and the
adjustment or change at work that is
needed due to the limitation, if either of
these is not clear from the request, and
potential reasonable accommodations.
There are no rigid steps that must be
followed.
(l) Limits on supporting
documentation. (1) A covered entity is
not required to seek supporting
documentation. A covered entity may
seek supporting documentation from an
employee who requests an
accommodation under the PWFA only
when it is reasonable under the
circumstances for the covered entity to
determine whether the employee has a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
(a limitation) and needs an adjustment
or change at work due to the limitation.
The following situations are examples of
when it is not reasonable under the
circumstances to seek supporting
documentation:
(i) When the physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (a
limitation), and the adjustment or
change at work needed due to the
limitation are obvious and the employee
provides self-confirmation as defined in
paragraph (l)(4) of this section;
(ii) When the employer already has
sufficient information to determine
whether the employee has a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions (a
limitation) and needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation;
(iii) When the employee is pregnant
and seeks one of the modifications
listed in paragraphs (j)(4)(i) through (iv)
of this section due to a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy (a limitation)

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

and the employee provides selfconfirmation as defined in paragraph
(l)(4) of this section;
(iv) When the reasonable
accommodation is related to a time and/
or place to pump at work, other
modifications related to pumping at
work, or a time to nurse during work
hours (where the regular location of the
employee’s workplace makes nursing
during work hours a possibility because
the child is in close proximity), and the
employee provides self-confirmation, as
defined in paragraph (l)(4) of this
section; or
(v) When the requested
accommodation is available to
employees without known limitations
under the PWFA pursuant to a covered
entity’s policies or practices without
submitting supporting documentation.
(2) When it is reasonable under the
circumstances, based on paragraph (l)(1)
of this section, to seek supporting
documentation, the covered entity is
limited to seeking reasonable
documentation.
(i) Reasonable documentation means
the minimum that is sufficient to:
(A) Confirm the physical or mental
condition (i.e., an impediment or
problem that may be modest, minor,
and/or episodic; a need or a problem
related to maintaining the employee’s
health or the health of the pregnancy; or
an employee seeking health care related
to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition itself) whether or not
such condition meets the definition of
disability specified in section 3 of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
42 U.S.C. 12102;
(B) Confirm that the physical or
mental condition is related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
(together with paragraph (l)(2)(i)(A) of
this section, ‘‘a limitation’’); and
(C) Describe the adjustment or change
at work that is needed due to the
limitation.
(ii) Covered entities may not require
that supporting documentation be
submitted on a specific form.
(3) When it is reasonable under the
circumstances, based on paragraph (l)(1)
of this section, to seek supporting
documentation, a covered entity may
require that the reasonable
documentation comes from a health care
provider, which may include, but is not
limited to: doctors, midwives, nurses,
nurse practitioners, physical therapists,
lactation consultants, doulas,
occupational therapists, vocational
rehabilitation specialists, therapists,
industrial hygienists, licensed mental
health professionals, psychologists, or
psychiatrists. The health care provider

PO 00000

Frm 00092

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

may be a telehealth provider. The
covered entity may not require that the
health care provider submitting
documentation be the provider treating
the condition at issue. The covered
entity may not require that the
employee seeking the accommodation
be examined by a health care provider
selected by the covered entity.
(4) Self-confirmation means a simple
statement where the employee confirms,
for purposes of paragraph (l)(1)(i), (iii),
or (iv) of this section, the physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions (a
limitation), and the adjustment or
change at work needed due to the
limitation. The statement can be made
in any manner and can be made as part
of the request for reasonable
accommodation under paragraph (h)(2)
of this section. A covered entity may not
require that the statement be in a
specific format, use specific words, or
be on a specific form.
§ 1636.4 Nondiscrimination with regard to
reasonable accommodations related to
pregnancy.

(a) It is an unlawful employment
practice for a covered entity not to make
reasonable accommodations to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of a qualified
employee, unless such covered entity
can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship on the operation of the
business of such covered entity.
(1) An unnecessary delay in providing
a reasonable accommodation to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of a qualified
employee may result in a violation of
the PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), even
if the covered entity eventually provides
the reasonable accommodation. In
determining whether there has been an
unnecessary delay, factors to be
considered, with no one factor to be
dispositive, include:
(i) The reason for the delay;
(ii) The length of the delay;
(iii) The length of time that the
accommodation is needed. If the
accommodation is needed for a short
time, unnecessary delay in providing it
may effectively mean failure to provide
the accommodation;
(iv) How much the employee and the
covered entity each contributed to the
delay;
(v) Whether the covered entity was
engaged in actions related to the
reasonable accommodation request
during the delay;

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
(vi) Whether the accommodation was
or would be simple or complex to
provide. There are certain
accommodations, set forth in
§ 1636.3(j)(4), that are common and easy
to provide. Delay in providing these
accommodations will virtually always
result in a finding of unnecessary delay;
and
(vii) Whether the covered entity
offered the employee an interim
reasonable accommodation during the
interactive process or while waiting for
the covered entity’s response. For the
purposes of this factor, the interim
reasonable accommodation should be
one that allows the employee to
continue working. Leave will not be
considered an interim reasonable
accommodation supporting this factor,
unless the employee selects or requests
leave as an interim reasonable
accommodation.
(2) An employee with known
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
is not required to accept an
accommodation. However, if such
employee rejects a reasonable
accommodation that is necessary to
enable the employee to perform an
essential function(s) of the position held
or desired or to apply for the position,
or rejects the temporary suspension of
an essential function(s) if the employee
is qualified under § 1636.3(f)(2), and, as
a result of that rejection, cannot perform
an essential function(s) of the position,
or cannot apply, the employee will not
be considered ‘‘qualified.’’
(3) A covered entity cannot justify
failing to provide a reasonable
accommodation or the unnecessary
delay in providing a reasonable
accommodation to a qualified employee
with known limitations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions based on the
employee failing to provide supporting
documentation, unless:
(i) The covered entity seeks the
supporting documentation;
(ii) Seeking the supporting
documentation is reasonable under the
circumstances as set out in
§ 1636.3(l)(1);
(iii) The supporting documentation is
‘‘reasonable documentation’’ as defined
in § 1636.3(l)(2); and
(iv) The covered entity provides the
employee sufficient time to obtain and
provide the supporting documentation.
(4) When choosing among effective
accommodations, the covered entity
must choose an accommodation that
provides the qualified employee with
known limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
equal employment opportunity to attain

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

the same level of performance, or to
enjoy the same level of benefits and
privileges as are available to the average
employee without a known limitation
who is similarly situated. The similarly
situated average employee without a
known limitation may include the
employee requesting an accommodation
at a time prior to communicating the
limitation.
(b) It is an unlawful employment
practice for a covered entity to require
a qualified employee affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to accept an
accommodation other than any
reasonable accommodation arrived at
through the interactive process referred
to in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) and described
in § 1636.3(k).
(c) It is an unlawful employment
practice for a covered entity to deny
employment opportunities to a qualified
employee if such denial is based on the
need, or potential need, of the covered
entity to make reasonable
accommodations to the known
limitations related to the pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
of the qualified employee.
(d) It is an unlawful employment
practice for a covered entity:
(1) To require a qualified employee to
take leave, whether paid or unpaid, if
another reasonable accommodation can
be provided to the known limitations
related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions of the
qualified employee that does not result
in an undue hardship for the covered
entity; but
(2) Nothing in paragraph (d)(1) of this
section prohibits leave as a reasonable
accommodation if that is the reasonable
accommodation requested or selected by
the employee, or if it is the only
reasonable accommodation that does
not cause an undue hardship.
(e) It is an unlawful employment
practice for a covered entity:
(1) To take adverse action in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment
against a qualified employee on account
of the employee requesting or using a
reasonable accommodation to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of the employee.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (e)(1) of this
section limits the rights available under
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f).
§ 1636.5

Remedies and enforcement.

(a) Employees covered by Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in sections 705,
706, 707, 709, 710, and 711 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–4

PO 00000

Frm 00093

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29187

et seq., to the Commission, the Attorney
General, or any person alleging a
violation of Title VII of such Act, 42
U.S.C. 2000e et seq., shall be the
powers, remedies, and procedures the
PWFA provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, or any person,
respectively, alleging an unlawful
employment practice in violation of the
PWFA against an employee described in
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3)(A), except as
provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of
this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures the PWFA provides to the
Commission, the Attorney General, or
any person alleging such practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures the PWFA
provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, or any person alleging
such practice (not an employment
practice specifically excluded from
coverage under section 1977A(a)(1) of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a(a)(1)).
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Employees covered by Chapter 5 of
Title 3, United States Code—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in chapter 5 of title
3, United States Code, to the President,
the Commission, the Merit Systems
Protection Board, or any person alleging
a violation of section 411(a)(1) of such
title shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures this section provides to the
President, the Commission, the Board,
or any person, respectively, alleging an
unlawful employment practice in
violation of this section against an
employee described in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(3)(C), except as provided in
paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures this section provides to the
President, the Commission, the Board,
or any person alleging such practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to the President, the

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29188

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

Commission, the Board, or any person
alleging such practice (not an
employment practice specifically
excluded from coverage under section
1977A(a)(1) of the Revised Statutes, 42
U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(d) Employees covered by Government
Employee Rights Act of 1991—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in sections 302
and 304 of the Government Employee
Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b
and 2000e–16c, to the Commission or
any person alleging a violation of
section 302(a)(1) of such Act, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16b(a)(1), shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures the PWFA
provides to the Commission or any
person, respectively, alleging an
unlawful employment practice in
violation of the PWFA against an
employee described in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(3)(D), except as provided in
paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures the PWFA provides to the
Commission or any person alleging such
practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures the PWFA
provides to the Commission or any
person alleging such practice (not an
employment practice specifically
excluded from coverage under section
1977A(a)(1) of the Revised Statutes, 42
U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(e) Employees covered by Section 717
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in section 717 of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16, to the Commission, the
Attorney General, the Librarian of
Congress, or any person alleging a
violation of that section shall be the
powers, remedies, and procedures the
PWFA provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, the Librarian of
Congress, or any person, respectively,
alleging an unlawful employment
practice in violation of the PWFA
against an employee described in 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(3)(E), except as provided
in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this
section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

procedures the PWFA provides to the
Commission, the Attorney General, the
Librarian of Congress, or any person
alleging such practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures the PWFA
provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, the Librarian of
Congress, or any person alleging such
practice (not an employment practice
specifically excluded from coverage
under section 1977A(a)(1) of the
Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(f) Prohibition against retaliation—(1)
Prohibition against retaliation. No
person shall discriminate against any
employee because such employee has
opposed any act or practice made
unlawful by the PWFA or because such
employee made a charge, testified,
assisted, or participated in any manner
in an investigation, proceeding, or
hearing under the PWFA.
(i) An employee need not be a
qualified employee with a known
limitation under the PWFA to bring an
action under this paragraph (f)(1).
(ii) A request for reasonable
accommodation for a known limitation
under the PWFA constitutes protected
activity under this paragraph (f)(1).
(iii) An employee does not actually
have to be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under the PWFA in
order for the retaliation to be actionable.
(2) Prohibition against coercion. It
shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate,
threaten, harass, or interfere with any
individual in the exercise or enjoyment
of, or on account of such individual
having exercised or enjoyed, or on
account of such individual having aided
or encouraged any other individual in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right
granted or protected by the PWFA.
(i) An individual need not be a
qualified employee with a known
limitation under the PWFA to bring an
action under this paragraph (f)(2).
(ii) An individual does not actually
have to be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under the PWFA for the
coercion, intimidation, threats,
harassment, or interference to be
actionable.
(3) Remedy. The remedies and
procedures otherwise provided for
under this section shall be available to
aggrieved individuals with respect to
violations of this section regarding
retaliation or coercion.
(g) Limitation on monetary damages.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(3),
(c)(3), (d)(3), and (e)(3) of this section,

PO 00000

Frm 00094

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

if an unlawful employment practice
involves the provision of a reasonable
accommodation pursuant to the PWFA
or this part, damages may not be
awarded under section 1977A of the
Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1981a, if the
covered entity demonstrates good faith
efforts, in consultation with the
qualified employee with known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions who has
informed the covered entity that
accommodation is needed, to identify
and make a reasonable accommodation
that would provide such employee with
an equally effective opportunity and
would not cause an undue hardship on
the operation of the business of the
covered entity.
§ 1636.6

Waiver of State immunity.

A State shall not be immune under
the 11th Amendment to the Constitution
from an action in a Federal or State
court of competent jurisdiction for a
violation of the PWFA. In any action
against a State for a violation of the
PWFA, remedies (including remedies
both at law and in equity) are available
for such a violation to the same extent
such remedies are available for such a
violation in an action against any public
or private entity other than a State.
§ 1636.7

Relationship to other laws.

(a) In general. (1) The PWFA and this
part do not invalidate or limit the
powers, remedies, and procedures
under any Federal law, State law, or the
law of any political subdivision of any
State or jurisdiction that provides
greater or equal protection for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
(2) The PWFA and this part do not
require an employer-sponsored health
plan to pay for or cover any particular
item, procedure, or treatment, or affect
any right or remedy available under any
other Federal, State, or local law with
respect to any such payment or coverage
requirement.
(b) Rule of construction. The PWFA
and this part are subject to the
applicability to religious employment
set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–
1(a).
(1) Nothing in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b)
or this part should be interpreted to
limit a covered entity’s rights under the
U.S. Constitution.
(2) Nothing in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b)
or this part should be interpreted to
limit an employee’s rights under other
civil rights statutes.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
§ 1636.8

Severability.

(a) The Commission intends that, if
any provision of the PWFA or the
application of that provision to
particular persons or circumstances is
held invalid or found to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of the
statute and the application of that
provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
(b) The Commission intends that, if
any provision of this part that uses the
same language as the statute, or the
application of that provision to
particular persons or circumstances, is
held invalid or found to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this
part and the application of that
provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
(c) The Commission intends that, if
any provision of this part or the
interpretive guidance in appendix A to
this part that provides additional
guidance to implement the PWFA,
including examples of reasonable
accommodations, or the application of
that provision to particular persons or
circumstances, is held invalid or found
to be unconstitutional, the remainder of
this part or the interpretive guidance
and the application of that provision to
other persons or circumstances shall not
be affected.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Appendix A to Part 1636—Interpretive
Guidance on the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act
I. Introduction
1. The Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
(PWFA) requires a covered entity to provide
reasonable accommodations to a qualified
employee’s known limitation related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions,
absent undue hardship on the operation of
the business of the covered entity. Although
employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions have certain
rights under existing civil rights laws,
including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (Title VII), as amended by the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 (PDA),
42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq., and the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), as
amended by the ADA Amendments Act of
2008 (ADAAA or Amendments Act), 42
U.S.C. 12111 et seq.,1 Congress determined
that the legal protections offered by these two
statutes, particularly as interpreted by the
courts, were ‘‘insufficient to ensure that
pregnant workers receive the
accommodations they need.’’ 2
1 References to the ADA throughout this part and
the Interpretive Guidance in this appendix are
intended to apply equally to the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, as all nondiscrimination standards under
title I of the ADA also apply to Federal agencies
under section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act. See 29
U.S.C. 791(f).
2 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 12 (2021).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

2. The PWFA, at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3,
directs the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC or
Commission) to promulgate regulations to
implement the PWFA.
3. This Interpretive Guidance addresses the
major provisions of the PWFA and its
regulation and explains the major concepts
pertaining to nondiscrimination with respect
to reasonable accommodations for known
limitations (physical or mental conditions
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions) under the statute. The
Interpretive Guidance represents the
Commission’s interpretation of the issues
addressed within it, and the Commission will
be guided by the regulation and the
Interpretive Guidance when enforcing the
PWFA.
II. General Information and Terms Used in
the Regulation and Interpretive Guidance
1. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) uses
the term ‘‘employee (including an
applicant)’’ in its definition of ‘‘employee.’’ 3
Thus, throughout the statute, the final
regulation, and this Interpretive Guidance,
the term ‘‘employee’’ should be understood
to include ‘‘applicant’’ where relevant.
Because the PWFA relies on Title VII for its
definition of ‘‘employee,’’ that term also
includes ‘‘former employee,’’ where
relevant.4 The PWFA defines ‘‘covered
entity’’ using the definition of ‘‘employer’’
from different statutes, including Title VII.5
Thus ‘‘covered entities’’ under the PWFA
include public or private employers with 15
or more employees, unions, employment
agencies, and the Federal Government.6 In
the regulation and this Interpretive Guidance,
the Commission uses the terms ‘‘covered
entity’’ and ‘‘employer’’ interchangeably.
2. This Interpretive Guidance contains
many examples to illustrate situations under
the PWFA. The examples do not, and are not
intended to, cover every limitation or
possible accommodation under the PWFA.
Depending on the facts in the examples, the
same facts could lead to claims also being
brought under other statutes that the
Commission enforces, such as Title VII and
the ADA. Moreover, the situations in specific
examples could implicate other Federal laws,
including, but not limited to, the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 U.S.C. 2601
et seq. (FMLA); the Occupational Safety and
Health Act, 29 U.S.C. 651 et seq. (OSH Act);
and the Providing Urgent Maternal
Protections for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP
Act) (Pub. L. 117–328, Div. KK, 136 Stat.
3 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3).
4 Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346
(1997).
5 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(A), (B)(i), (B)(iii), (B)(iv).
The other statutes are the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995 and 3 U.S.C. 411(c).
6 The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2) provides that
the term ‘‘covered entity’’ has the meaning given
the term ‘‘respondent’’ under 42 U.S.C. 2000e(n)
and includes employers as defined in 42 U.S.C.
2000e(b), 2000e–16c(a), and 2000e–16(a). The
statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) provides as a rule
of construction that the chapter is subject to the
applicability to religious employment set forth in 42
U.S.C. 2000e–1(a) [section 702(a) of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964].

PO 00000

Frm 00095

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29189

4459, 6093 (2022)).7 Finally, although some
examples state that the described actions
‘‘would violate’’ the PWFA, additional facts
not described in the examples could change
that determination.8
III. 1636.
PWFA

Definitions—Specific to the

1636.3(a) Known Limitation
1. Section 1636.3(a) reiterates the
definition of ‘‘known limitation’’ from 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(4) of the PWFA and then
provides definitions for the operative terms.
1636.3(a)(1) Known
2. Paragraph (a)(1) adopts the definition of
‘‘known’’ from the PWFA and thus defines it
to mean that the employee, or the employee’s
representative, has communicated the
limitation to the covered entity.9
1636.3(a)(2) Limitation
3. Paragraph (a)(2) adopts the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ from the PWFA and thus defines
it to mean a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.10 The limitation must be of the
specific employee in question. The ‘‘physical
or mental condition’’ that is the limitation
may be a modest, minor, and/or episodic
impediment or problem. The definition
encompasses when an employee affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions has a need or a problem related
to maintaining their health or the health of
the pregnancy.11
4. The definition of ‘‘limitation’’ also
includes when an employee is seeking health
care related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or
a related medical condition itself. Under the
ADA, when an individual has an actual or a
record of a disability, employers often may be
required to provide the reasonable
accommodation of leave so that an employee
7 To the extent that an accommodation in an
example is required under another law, like the
OSH Act, the example should not be read to suggest
that such a requirement is not applicable.
8 In this part and the Interpretive Guidance, the
Commission uses the terms ‘‘leave’’ and ‘‘time off’’
and intends those terms to cover leave however it
is identified by the specific employer. Additionally,
in this part and the Interpretive Guidance, the
Commission uses the term ‘‘light duty.’’ The
Commission recognizes that ‘‘light duty’’ programs,
or other programs providing modified duties, can
vary depending on the covered entity. See EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance: Workers’ Compensation
and the ADA, text preceding Question 27 (1996)
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation], https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-workerscompensation-and-ada. The Commission intends
‘‘light duty’’ to include the types of programs
included in Questions 27 and 28 of the Enforcement
Guidance: Workers’ Compensation and any other
policy, practice, or system that a covered entity has
for accommodating employees, including when one
or more essential functions of a position are
temporarily excused.
9 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).
10 Id.
11 In § 1636.3(a)(2) and the Interpretive Guidance,
the Commission uses the phrase ‘‘maintaining their
health or the health of the pregnancy.’’ This
includes avoiding risk to the employee’s health or
to the health of the pregnancy.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29190

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

can obtain medical treatment.12 Similarly,
under the PWFA, an employee may require
a reasonable accommodation of leave to
attend health care appointments or receive
treatment for or recover from their
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.13 In passing the PWFA, Congress
sought, in part, to help pregnant employees
maintain their health.14 Thus, the PWFA
covers situations when an employee requests
an accommodation in order to maintain their
health or the health of their pregnancy and
avoid negative consequences, and when an
employee seeks health care for their
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. Practically, allowing for
accommodations to maintain health and
attend medical appointments may decrease
the need for a more extensive
12 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the
ADA, at text after n.49 (2002) [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation], http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-reasonableaccommodation-and-undue-hardship-under-ada.
13 See, e.g., U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs.,
Off. of Women’s Health, Prenatal Care, https://
www.womenshealth.gov/a-z-topics/prenatal-care
(last updated Feb. 22, 2021) (stating that during
pregnancy usually visits are once a month until
week 28, twice a month from weeks 28–36 and once
a week from week 36 to birth); Am. Coll. of
Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion No.
736, Optimizing Postpartum Care (reaff’d 2021),
https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2018/05/optimizingpostpartum-care (stating the importance of regular
postpartum care); and Opinion No. 826, Protecting
and Expanding Medicaid to Improve Women’s
Health (2021), https://www.acog.org/clinical/
clinical-guidance/committee-opinion/articles/2021/
06/protecting-and-expanding-medicaid-to-improvewomens-health (encouraging the expansion of
Medicaid to improve postpartum care).
14 See Markup of the Paycheck Fairness Act;
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act; Workplace Violence
Prevention for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act, YouTube (2021), at 54:46 (statement
of Rep. Kathy E. Manning) (stating that a goal of the
PWFA is to help pregnant workers ‘‘deliver healthy
babies while maintaining their jobs’’); at 21:50
(statement of Rep. Robert C. Scott) (‘‘[W]ithout
[these] basic protections, too many workers are
forced to choose between a healthy pregnancy and
their paychecks.’’); at 1:35:01 (statement of Rep.
Lucy McBath) (‘‘[N]o mother should ever have to
choose between the health of herself/themselves
and their child or a paycheck.’’); and at 1:37:38
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici) (‘‘[P]regnant
workers should not have to choose between a
healthy pregnancy and a paycheck.’’), https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6Ie2S9sTxs; see also
H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 12 (workers whose
pregnancy-related impairments substantially limit a
major life activity are covered by the ADA; ‘‘this
standard leaves women with less serious
pregnancy-related impairments, and who need
accommodations, without legal recourse’’); id. at
22–23 (accommodations are frequently needed by,
and should be provided to, people with healthy
pregnancies); id. at 23 (example of an ‘‘uneventful
pregnancy’’ in which a woman needed more
bathroom breaks); id. at 14–21 (outlining the gaps
created by court interpretations of Title VII and the
ADA that the PWFA is intended to fill so that
pregnant workers can receive reasonable
accommodations); id. at 56 (noting that a ‘‘minor
limitation’’ can be covered because it presumably
requires only minor accommodations).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

accommodation because the employee may
be able to avoid more serious complications.
5. The physical or mental condition (the
limitation) required to trigger the obligation
to provide a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA does not need to meet the
definition of a ‘‘disability’’ under the ADA.15
In other words, an employee need not have
an impairment that substantially limits a
major life activity to be entitled to a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA,
nor does an employee need to have an
‘‘impairment’’ as defined in the regulation
implementing the ADA.16 The PWFA can
cover physical or mental conditions that also
are covered under the ADA. In these
situations, an individual may be entitled to
an accommodation under the ADA as well as
the PWFA.
6. The PWFA does not create a right to
reasonable accommodation based on an
individual’s association with someone else
who may have a PWFA-covered limitation.
Nor is a qualified employee entitled to
accommodation because they have a physical
or mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of someone else’s pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions. For
example, a spouse experiencing anxiety due
to a partner’s pregnancy is not covered by the
PWFA. Time for bonding or time for
childcare also is not covered by the PWFA.
7. Whether an employee has a ‘‘physical or
mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ shall be
construed broadly to the maximum extent
permitted by the PWFA.
Related to, Affected by, or Arising Out of
8. The PWFA’s use of the inclusive terms
‘‘related to, affected by, or arising out of’’ 17
means that pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions do not need to be the
sole, the original, or a substantial cause of the
physical or mental condition at issue for the
physical or mental condition to be ‘‘related
to, affected by, or arising out of’’ pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions.
9. Whether a physical or mental condition
is related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions will be apparent in the majority
of cases. Pregnancy and childbirth cause
systemic changes that not only create new
physical and mental conditions but also can
exacerbate preexisting conditions and can
cause additional pain or risk.18 Thus, a
15 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).
16 See 29 CFR 1630.2(h).
17 The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4) defines the
term ‘‘known limitation’’ as a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. Most of the prohibited acts in the
statute, however, use the phrase ‘‘known limitations
related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.’’ See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1),
(3)–(5). Thus, the Commission will define ‘‘related
to, affected by, or arising out of’’ as one phrase and
will not attempt to define each of the parts of it
separately.
18 See, e.g., Danforth’s Obstetrics & Gynecology
286 (Ronald S. Gibbs et al. eds., 10th ed. 2008)
(‘‘Normal pregnancy entails many physiologic
changes . . . .’’); Clinical Anesthesia 1138 (Paul G.
Barash et al. eds., 6th ed. 2009) (‘‘During pregnancy,

PO 00000

Frm 00096

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

connection between an employee’s physical
or mental condition and their pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions will
be readily ascertained when an employee is
currently pregnant or the employee is
experiencing or has just experienced
childbirth.
10. For example, if an employee is
pregnant and as a result has pain when
standing for long periods of time, the
employee’s physical or mental condition
(pain when standing for a protracted period)
is related to, affected by, or arising out of the
employee’s pregnancy. An employee who is
pregnant and because of the pregnancy
cannot lift more than 20 pounds has a
physical condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, because lifting is
associated with low back pain and
musculoskeletal disorders that may be
exacerbated by physical changes associated
with pregnancy.19 An employee who is
pregnant and seeks time off for prenatal
health care appointments is attending
medical appointments related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy. An employee
who requests an accommodation to attend
therapy appointments for postpartum
depression has a medical condition related to
pregnancy or childbirth (postpartum
depression) and is obtaining health care
related to, affected by, or arising out of a
related medical condition. A pregnant
employee who is seeking an accommodation
to limit exposure to secondhand smoke to
protect the health of their pregnancy has a
physical or mental condition (trying to
maintain the employee’s health or the health
of their pregnancy, or to address increased
sensitivity to secondhand smoke) related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy. A
lactating employee who seeks an
accommodation to take breaks to eat has a
related medical condition (lactation) and a
physical condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of it (increased nutritional needs).
A pregnant employee seeking time off in
order to have an amniocentesis procedure is
attending a medical appointment related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy. An
employee who requests leave for in vitro
fertilization (IVF) treatment for the employee
to get pregnant has a limitation, either related
to potential or intended pregnancy or a
medical condition related to pregnancy
(difficulty in becoming pregnant or
infertility), and is seeking health care related
to, affected by, or arising out of it. An
employee whose pregnancy is causing fatigue
has a physical condition (fatigue) related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy. An
employee whose pregnancy is causing back
pain has a physical condition (back pain)
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy. This is not by any means a
complete list of physical or mental
there are major alterations in nearly every maternal
organ system.’’)
19 Am. Coll. of Obstetricians & Gynecologists,
Comm. Opinion No. 733, Employment
Considerations During Pregnancy and the
Postpartum Period (reaff’d 2023), https://
www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2018/04/employmentconsiderations-during-pregnancy-and-thepostpartum-period.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
conditions related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, but rather a discussion of
examples to illustrate application of the legal
rule.
11. The Commission recognizes that some
physical or mental conditions (which can be
‘‘limitations’’ as defined by the PWFA 20),
including some of those in the examples in
paragraph 10 of this section, may occur even
if they are not related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (e.g., attending
medical appointments, increased nutritional
needs, constraints on lifting). The
Commission anticipates that confirming
whether a physical or mental condition is
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions usually will be straightforward
and can be accomplished through the
interactive process. If a physical or mental
condition is not covered by the PWFA, it may
be that the physical or mental condition
constitutes a disability that is covered by the
ADA.
12. There may be situations where a
physical or mental condition begins as
something that is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, and, once the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions resolve, the physical or mental
condition remains, evolves, or worsens. To
confirm whether the employee’s physical or
mental condition is still related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, the employer and
the employee can engage in the interactive
process.
13. There will be situations where an
individual with a physical or mental
condition that is no longer related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions has an ‘‘actual’’ or
‘‘record of’’ disability under the ADA. In
those situations, an individual may seek an
accommodation under the ADA and the
reasonable accommodation process would
follow the ADA.21
14. Finally, there may be situations where
the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions exacerbate existing conditions
that may be disabilities under the ADA. In
those situations, an employee can seek an
accommodation under the PWFA or the
ADA, or both statutes.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(b) Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions
15. The PWFA uses the term ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions,’’
which appears in Title VII’s definition of
‘‘sex.’’ 22 Because Congress chose to write the
PWFA using the same language as Title VII,
§ 1636.3(b) gives the term ‘‘pregnancy,
20 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4) (providing that a ‘‘known
limitation’’ is a physical or mental condition related
to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions that the
employee or employee’s representative has
communicated to the employer).
21 See, e.g., 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(3); 29 CFR part
1630, appendix, 1630.2(o)(3) and 1630.9.
22 See 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

childbirth, or related medical conditions’’ the
same meaning as under Title VII.23
16. The non-exhaustive list of examples in
§ 1636.3(b) for the definition of ‘‘pregnancy’’
and ‘‘childbirth’’ includes current pregnancy,
past pregnancy, potential or intended
pregnancy (which can include infertility,
fertility treatments, and the use of
contraception), and labor and childbirth
(including vaginal delivery and cesarean
section).24
23 See, e.g., Tex. Dep’t of Hous. & Cmty. Affs. v.
Inclusive Cmtys. Project, Inc., 576 U.S. 519, 536
(2015) (‘‘If a word or phrase has been . . . given a
uniform interpretation by inferior courts . . . , a
later version of that act perpetuating the wording
is presumed to carry forward that interpretation.’’)
(omissions in original) (quoting Antonin Scalia &
Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation
of Legal Texts 322 (2012)); Bragdon v. Abbott, 524
U.S. 624, 645 (1998) (‘‘When administrative and
judicial interpretations have settled the meaning of
an existing statutory provision, repetition of the
same language in a new statute indicates, as a
general matter, the intent to incorporate its
administrative and judicial interpretations as
well.’’); Lorillard v. Pons, 434 U.S. 575, 581 (1978)
(‘‘[W]here, as here, Congress adopts a new law
incorporating sections of a prior law, Congress
normally can be presumed to have had knowledge
of the interpretation given to the incorporated law,
at least insofar as it affects the new statute.’’); Hall
v. U.S. Dep’t of Agric., 984 F.3d 825, 840 (9th Cir.
2020) (‘‘Congress is presumed to be aware of an
agency’s interpretation of a statute. We most
commonly apply that presumption when an
agency’s interpretation of a statute has been
officially published and consistently followed. If
Congress thereafter reenacts the same language, we
conclude that it has adopted the agency’s
interpretation.’’) (internal citations and quotation
marks omitted); Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner,
Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 323
(2012) (‘‘[W]hen a statute uses the very same
terminology as an earlier statute—especially in the
very same field, such as securities law or civilrights law—it is reasonable to believe that the
terminology bears a consistent meaning.’’); H.R.
Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 11–17 (discussing the
history of the passage of the PDA; explaining that,
due to court decisions, the PDA did not fulfill its
promise to protect pregnant employees; and that the
PWFA was intended to rectify this problem and
protect the same employees covered by the PDA).
24 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination and Related Issues, (I)(A) (2015)
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination], https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-pregnancydiscrimination-and-related-issues (providing that
the phrase ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ includes current pregnancy,
past pregnancy, potential or intended pregnancy,
infertility treatment, use of contraception, lactation,
breastfeeding, and the decision to have or not have
an abortion, among other conditions); see, e.g.,
Kocak v. Cmty. Health Partners of Ohio, Inc., 400
F.3d 466, 470 (6th Cir. 2005) (reasoning that the
plaintiff ‘‘cannot be refused employment on the
basis of her potential pregnancy’’); Piraino v. Int’l
Orientation Res., Inc., 84 F.3d 270, 274 (7th Cir.
1996) (rejecting ‘‘surprising claim’’ by the defendant
that no pregnancy discrimination can be shown
where the challenged action occurred after the birth
of the plaintiff’s baby); Pacourek v. Inland Steel Co.,
858 F. Supp. 1393, 1397, 1402–04 (N.D. Ill. 1994)
(observing that the PDA gives a woman ‘‘the right
. . . to be financially and legally protected before,
during, and after her pregnancy’’ and stating ‘‘[a]s
a general matter, a woman’s medical condition
rendering her unable to become pregnant naturally
is a medical condition related to pregnancy and
childbirth for purposes of the Pregnancy

PO 00000

Frm 00097

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29191

17. ‘‘Related medical conditions’’ are
medical conditions that relate to pregnancy
or childbirth.25 To be a related medical
condition, the medical condition need not be
caused solely, originally, or substantially by
pregnancy or childbirth.
18. There are some medical conditions
where the relation to pregnancy will be
readily apparent. They can include, but are
not limited to, lactation (including
breastfeeding and pumping), miscarriage,
stillbirth, having or choosing not to have an
abortion, preeclampsia, gestational diabetes,
and HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver
enzymes and low platelets) syndrome.26
Discrimination Act’’) (internal citations and
quotation marks omitted); Donaldson v. Am. Banco
Corp., Inc., 945 F. Supp. 1456, 1464 (D. Colo. 1996)
(‘‘It would make little sense to prohibit an employer
from firing a woman during her pregnancy but
permit the employer to terminate her the day after
delivery if the reason for termination was that the
woman became pregnant in the first place. The
plain language of the statute does not require it, and
common sense precludes it.’’); Neessen v. Arona
Corp., 708 F. Supp. 2d 841, 851 (N.D. Iowa 2010)
(finding the plaintiff covered by the PDA where the
defendant allegedly refused to hire her because she
had recently been pregnant and given birth); EEOC,
Commission Decision on Coverage of
Contraception, at (I)(A) (Dec. 14, 2000), https://
www.eeoc.gov/commission-decision-coveragecontraception (‘‘The PDA’s prohibition on
discrimination against women based on their ability
to become pregnant thus necessarily includes a
prohibition on discrimination related to a woman’s
use of contraceptives.’’); Cooley v. DaimlerChrysler
Corp., 281 F. Supp. 2d 979, 984–85 (E.D. Mo. 2003)
(determining that, although the defendant
employer’s policy was facially neutral, denying a
prescription medication that allows an employee to
control their potential to become pregnant is
‘‘necessarily a sex-based exclusion’’ that violates
Title VII, as amended by the PDA, because only
people who have the capacity to become pregnant
use prescription contraceptives, and the exclusion
of prescription contraceptives may treat medication
needed for a sex-specific condition less favorably
than medication necessary for other medical
conditions); Erickson v. Bartell Drug Co., 141 F.
Supp. 2d 1266, 1271–72 (W.D. Wash. 2001)
(determining that the selective exclusion of
prescription contraceptives from an employer’s
generally comprehensive prescription drug plan
violated the PDA because only people who have the
capacity to become pregnant use prescription
contraceptives).
25 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 24, at (I)(A)(4).
26 Id.; see also Hicks v. City of Tuscaloosa, 870
F.3d 1253, 1259–60 (11th Cir. 2017) (finding
lactation and breastfeeding covered under the PDA,
and asserting that ‘‘[t]he PDA would be rendered a
nullity if women were protected during a pregnancy
but then could be readily terminated for
breastfeeding—an important pregnancy-related
‘physiological process’ ’’) (internal citation omitted);
EEOC v. Houston Funding II, Ltd., 717 F.3d 425,
428 (5th Cir. 2013) (holding that ‘‘lactation is a
related medical condition of pregnancy for
purposes of the PDA’’); Doe v. C.A.R.S. Prot. Plus,
Inc., 527 F.3d 358, 364 (3d Cir. 2008) (holding that
the PDA prohibits an employer from discriminating
against a female employee because she has
exercised her right to have an abortion); Turic v.
Holland Hosp., Inc., 85 F.3d 1211, 1214 (6th Cir.
1996) (finding the termination of the employment
of a pregnant employee because she contemplated
having an abortion violated the PDA); Carney v.
Martin Luther Home, Inc., 824 F.2d 643, 648 (8th
Cir. 1987) (referencing the PDA’s legislative history

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29192

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Pregnancy causes systemic changes that can
create new medical conditions and risks and
can exacerbate preexisting conditions and the
risks posed by such conditions.27 Thus, the
fact that a medical condition is related to
pregnancy will usually be evident when the
medical condition develops, is exacerbated,
or poses a new risk during an employee’s
current pregnancy. Additionally, the relation
will be apparent in many cases where the
medical condition develops, is exacerbated,
or poses a new risk during an employee’s
childbirth or during the employee’s
postpartum period.
19. However, simply because a condition is
listed as one that may be a related medical
condition does not mean it necessarily meets
the definition of ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ for the purposes of the PWFA.
To be a related medical condition for the
PWFA, the employee’s medical condition
must relate to pregnancy or childbirth. If an
employee has a condition but, in their
situation, it does not relate to pregnancy or
childbirth, the condition is not covered
under the PWFA. For example, if an
employee who gave birth 2 weeks ago is
vomiting because of food poisoning, that
medical condition is not related to pregnancy
or childbirth and the employee is not eligible
on that basis for a PWFA reasonable
accommodation.
20. Related medical conditions may
include conditions that existed before
pregnancy or childbirth and for which an
individual may already receive an ADA
reasonable accommodation. Pregnancy or
childbirth may exacerbate the condition,
such that additional or different
accommodations are needed. For example, an
employee who received extra breaks to eat or
drink due to Type 2 diabetes before
pregnancy (an ADA reasonable
accommodation) may need additional
accommodations during pregnancy to
monitor and manage the diabetes more
closely to avoid or minimize adverse health
consequences to the employee or the
pregnancy. As another example, an employee
may have had high blood pressure that could
be managed with medication prior to
pregnancy, but once the employee is
pregnant, the high blood pressure may pose
and noting commentator agreement that ‘‘[b]y
broadly defining pregnancy discrimination,
Congress clearly intended to extend protection
beyond the simple fact of an employee’s pregnancy
to include ‘related medical conditions’ such as
nausea or potential miscarriage’’) (internal citations
and quotation marks omitted); Ducharme v.
Crescent City Déjà Vu, LLC, 406 F. Supp. 3d 548,
556 (E.D. La. 2019) (finding that ‘‘abortion is
encompassed within the statutory text prohibiting
adverse employment actions ‘because of or on the
basis of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’ ’’); 29 CFR part 1604, appendix,
Questions 34–37 (1979) (addressing coverage of
abortion under the PDA); H.R. Rep. No. 95–1786,
at 4 (1978), as reprinted in 1978 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4749,
4766 (‘‘Because the bill applies to all situations in
which women are ‘affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, and related medical conditions,’ its basic
language covers decisions by women who chose to
terminate their pregnancies. Thus, no employer
may, for example, fire or refuse to hire a woman
simply because she has exercised her right to have
an abortion.’’).
27 See supra note 18.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

a risk to the employee or their pregnancy
such that the employee needs bed rest. In
these situations, an employee could request
a continued or an additional accommodation
under the ADA and/or an accommodation
under the PWFA.
21. The Commission emphasizes that the
list of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth or related
medical conditions’’ in § 1636.3(b) is nonexhaustive; to receive an accommodation a
qualified employee does not have to specify
a condition on this list or use medical terms
to describe a condition.
22. When an employer has received a
request for an accommodation under the
PWFA, the employer and employee can
engage in the interactive process, if
necessary, in order to confirm whether a
medical condition is related to pregnancy or
childbirth.
1636.3(c) Employee’s Representative
23. The limitation may be communicated
to the covered entity by the employee or the
employee’s representative. The term
‘‘employee’s representative’’ encompasses
any representative of the employee,
including a family member, friend, union
representative, health care provider, or other
representative. In most instances, the
Commission expects that the representative
will have the employee’s permission before
communicating the limitation to the covered
entity, but there may be some situations, for
example if the employee is incapacitated,
where that is not the case. Once the covered
entity is made aware of the limitation, the
representative’s participation in any aspect of
the reasonable accommodation process is at
the discretion of the employee, and the
employee may decide not to have the
representative participate at any time. In
most instances, the Commission expects that
the covered entity will engage directly with
the employee, even where the employee’s
representative began the process, but
acknowledges that in some situations, for
example, when the employee is incapacitated
or the representative is the employee’s
attorney, the covered entity will need to
continue to engage with the representative
rather than the employee.
1636.3(d) Communicated to the Employer
and 1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a
Reasonable Accommodation
24. Section 1636.3(d) and (h)(2) sets out
how an employee informs a covered entity of
their limitation in order to make it ‘‘known’’
and how an employee requests a reasonable
accommodation. In practice, the Commission
expects that these actions—communicating
the limitation to the employer and requesting
a reasonable accommodation—will take place
at the same time.
25. Informing the employer of the
limitation and requesting a reasonable
accommodation should not be complicated
or difficult. The covered entity must permit
an employee to do both through various
avenues and means, as set forth in
§ 1636.3(d). Given that many
accommodations requested under the PWFA
will be straightforward—like additional
bathroom breaks or access to water—the
Commission emphasizes the importance of

PO 00000

Frm 00098

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

employees being able to obtain
accommodations by communicating with the
employer representative(s) with whom they
would normally consult if they had questions
or concerns about work matters. Employees
should not be made to wait for a reasonable
accommodation, especially one that is simple
and imposes negligible cost or is temporary,
because they spoke to the ‘‘wrong’’
supervisor. The individuals to whom an
employee can communicate to seek
accommodation include persons with
supervisory authority for or who regularly
direct the employee’s work (or the equivalent
for the applicant) and human resources
personnel. Depending on the situation,
employees also may communicate with other
appropriate officials such as an agent of the
employer (e.g., a search firm, staffing agency,
or third-party benefits administrator).
26. Section 1636.3(d)(1) and (2) explains
that the communication informing the
covered entity of the limitation does not need
to be in writing, be in a specific format, use
specific words, or be on a specific form in
order for it to be considered ‘‘communicated
to the employer.’’
27. Just as the communication informing
the covered entity of the limitation does not
need to be in writing or use specific phrases,
the same is true for the request for a
reasonable accommodation. Employees may
inform the employer of the limitation and
request an accommodation in a conversation
or may use another mode of communication
to inform the employer.28 A covered entity
may choose to confirm a request in writing
or may ask the employee to fill out a form
or otherwise confirm the request in writing.
However, the covered entity cannot ignore or
close an initial request that satisfies
§ 1636.3(h)(2) if the employee does not
complete such confirmation procedures,
because that initial request is sufficient to
place the employer on notice.29 If a form is
used, the form should be a simple one that
does not deter the employee from pursuing
the request and does not delay the provision
of an accommodation. Additionally, although
employees are not required to communicate
limitations or request reasonable
accommodations in writing, an employee
may choose email or other written means to
submit a request for an accommodation,
which can promote clarity and create a
record of their request. Finally, the request
for accommodation does not need to be in the
form of a ‘‘request,’’ i.e., an employee does
not need to ‘‘ask’’ but may provide a
statement of their need for an
accommodation.
28. The requirement that no specific words
or phrases are necessary to communicate a
limitation or request a reasonable
accommodation includes not needing to
specifically identify whether a condition is
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ or whether it is a ‘‘physical or
mental condition.’’ The statutory definition
of ‘‘limitation’’ uses the words ‘‘condition’’
28 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Questions 1–3
(addressing requests for accommodation under the
ADA).
29 See id.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

and ‘‘related’’ twice (‘‘known limitation’’
means a physical or mental condition related
to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions.).30
Under § 1636.3(d), ‘‘physical or mental
conditions’’ are impediments or problems
affecting an employee that may be modest or
minor.31 A ‘‘physical or mental condition’’
includes when an employee affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions has a need or a problem related
to maintaining their health or the health of
the pregnancy; or is seeking health care
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition itself.32 ‘‘Related medical
conditions’’ are conditions related to the
pregnancy or childbirth of the specific
employee in question.
29. Many, but not all, conditions related to
pregnancy and childbirth can be both a
‘‘limitation’’ and a ‘‘related medical
condition.’’ For example, hyperemesis
gravidarum experienced during pregnancy is
a ‘‘condition’’ that could be classified as
either a ‘‘limitation’’ (nausea and vomiting
that arises out of pregnancy), or a ‘‘related
medical condition’’ (a condition that is
related to pregnancy); similarly, incontinence
could be a ‘‘limitation’’ (for example, when
someone who is pregnant becomes less able
to comfortably hold urine and thus requires
more frequent bathroom breaks), or a ‘‘related
medical condition’’ (for example, when the
medical condition of incontinence arises out
of or is exacerbated as a result of pregnancy
or childbirth).33 Either way, such needs can
be a reason for a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA.
30. Because the statute uses the same term
(‘‘condition’’) to define both ‘‘limitation’’ and
‘‘related medical conditions’’ and because
some ‘‘conditions’’ can be both a ‘‘limitation’’
and a ‘‘related medical condition,’’ an
employee does not have to identify whether
a particular condition is a ‘‘limitation’’ or a
‘‘related medical condition’’ when requesting
a reasonable accommodation. For example,
where an employee is experiencing nausea
and vomiting in connection with a
pregnancy, the employee need not determine
whether this is a ‘‘limitation’’ or a ‘‘related
medical condition’’ in order to request an
accommodation under the PWFA. Similarly,
there is no need for the employer to make
such a determination before granting an
accommodation under the PWFA.
31. Finally, PWFA limitations also may be
ADA disabilities.34 Therefore, an employee is
not required to identify the statute under
which they are requesting a reasonable
accommodation. Doing so would require that
employees seeking accommodations use
specific words or phrases, which § 1636.3(d)
prohibits.
30 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); 29 CFR 1636.3(a)(2).
31 29 CFR 1636.3(a)(2).
32 Id.
33 By contrast, normal weight gain during
pregnancy that necessitates a larger uniform would
be a ‘‘limitation’’ but not a ‘‘related medical
condition.’’
34 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); see also infra in the
Interpretive Guidance in section 1636.7(a)(1) under
The PWFA and the ADA.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

1636.3(e) Consideration of Mitigating
Measures
32. There may be steps that an employee
can take to mitigate, or lessen, the effects of
a known limitation such as taking
medication, getting extra rest, or using a
reasonable accommodation. Paragraph (e) of
§ 1636.3 explains that the ameliorative, or
positive, effects of ‘‘mitigating measures,’’ as
that term is defined in the ADA,35 shall not
be considered when determining whether the
employee has a limitation under the PWFA.
By contrast, the detrimental or nonameliorative effects of mitigating measures,
such as negative side effects of medication,
the burden of following a particular
treatment regimen, and complications that
arise from surgery, may be considered when
determining whether an employee has a
limitation under the PWFA.36 Both the
positive and negative effects of mitigating
measures may be considered when
determining what accommodation an
employee may need.
1636.3(f) Qualified Employee
33. An employee must meet the definition
of ‘‘qualified’’ in the PWFA in one of two
ways.37 Paragraph (f) of § 1636.3 reiterates
the statutory language that ‘‘qualified
employee’’ means an employee who, with or
without reasonable accommodation, can
perform the essential functions of the
position.38 Additionally, following the
statute, § 1636.3(f) also states that an
employee shall be considered qualified if: (1)
any inability to perform an essential
function(s) is for a temporary period; (2) the
essential function(s) could be performed in
the near future; and (3) the inability to
perform the essential function(s) can be
reasonably accommodated.39
34. For both definitions of qualified, the
determination of whether an employee with
a known limitation is qualified should be
based on the capabilities of the employee at
the time of the relevant employment
decision.40 The determination of qualified
should not be based on speculation that the
employee may become unable in the future
to perform certain tasks, may cause increased
health insurance premiums or workers’
compensation costs, or may require leave.41
1636.3(f)(1) Qualified Employee—With or
Without Reasonable Accommodation
35. The first way that an employee can be
‘‘qualified’’ under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6) is if
they can perform the essential functions of
their job with or without reasonable
accommodation, which is the same language
35 See 42 U.S.C. 12102(4)(E).
36 See 29 CFR 1630.2(j)(1)(vi) and (j)(4)(ii); see
also 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(j)(1)(vi).
37 The PWFA does not address prerequisites for
a position. Whether an employee is qualified for the
position in question is determined based on
whether the employee can perform the essential
functions of the position, with or without a
reasonable accommodation, or based on the second
part of the PWFA’s definition of ‘‘qualified.’’ 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(6).
38 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).
39 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6)(A)–(C).
40 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(m).
41 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(m).

PO 00000

Frm 00099

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29193

as in the ADA and is interpreted accordingly.
‘‘Reasonable’’ has the same meaning as under
the ADA on this topic—an accommodation
that ‘‘seems reasonable on its face, i.e.,
ordinarily or in the run of cases,’’ ‘‘feasible,’’
or ‘‘plausible.’’ 42 Many employees will meet
this part of the PWFA definition of qualified.
For example, a pregnant cashier who needs
a stool to perform the job will be qualified
with the reasonable accommodation of a
stool. A teacher recovering from childbirth
who needs additional bathroom breaks will
be qualified with a reasonable
accommodation that allows such breaks.
‘‘Qualified’’ for the Reasonable
Accommodation of Leave
36. When determining whether an
employee who needs leave as a reasonable
accommodation meets the definition of
‘‘qualified,’’ the relevant inquiry is whether
the employee would be able to perform the
essential functions of the position, with or
without reasonable accommodation (or, if
not, if the inability to perform the essential
function(s) is for a temporary period, the
essential function(s) could be performed in
the near future, and the inability to perform
the essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated), with the benefit of a period
of leave (e.g., intermittent leave, part-time
work, or a period of leave or time off). Thus,
an employee who needs some form of leave
to recover from a known limitation related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions can readily meet the definition of
‘‘qualified’’ under the first part of the PWFA
definition because it is reasonable to
conclude that once they return from the
period of leave (or during the time they are
working if it is intermittent leave), they will
be able to perform the essential functions of
the job, with or without additional
reasonable accommodations, or will be
‘‘qualified’’ under the second part of the
PWFA definition.43
1636.3(f)(2) Qualified Employee—Temporary
Suspension of an Essential Function(s)
37. The PWFA provides that an employee
can meet the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ even
if they cannot perform one or more essential
functions of the position in question with or
without a reasonable accommodation,
provided three conditions are met: (1) the
inability to perform an essential function(s)
is for a temporary period; (2) the essential
function(s) could be performed in the near
future; and (3) the inability to perform the
42 US Airways, Inc. v. Barnett, 535 U.S. 391, 401–
02 (2002); see, e.g., Shapiro v. Twp. of Lakewood,
292 F.3d 356, 360 (3d Cir. 2002) (citing the
definition from Barnett); Osborne v. Baxter
Healthcare Corp., 798 F.3d 1260, 1267 (10th Cir.
2015) (citing the definition from Barnett); EEOC v.
United Airlines, Inc., 693 F.3d 760, 762 (7th Cir.
2012) (citing the definition from Barnett); see also
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at text
accompanying nn.8–9 (citing the definition from
Barnett).
43 If the employee will not be able to perform all
of the essential functions at the end of the leave
period, with or without accommodation, the
employee may still be qualified under the second
part of the PWFA’s definition of qualified
employee. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29194

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated.44
38. Based on the overall structure and
wording of the statute, the second part of the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is relevant only
when an employee cannot perform one or
more essential functions of the job in
question, even with a reasonable
accommodation, due to a known limitation
under the PWFA. It is not relevant in any
other circumstance. If the employee can
perform the essential functions of the
position with or without a reasonable
accommodation, the first definition of
‘‘qualified’’ applies (i.e., able to do the job
with or without a reasonable
accommodation). For example, if a pregnant
employee requests additional restroom
breaks, they are qualified if they can perform
the essential functions of the job with the
reasonable accommodation of additional
restroom breaks, and, if so, there is no need
to reach the second part of the definition of
‘‘qualified,’’ i.e., to apply definitions of
‘‘temporary’’ or ‘‘in the near future,’’ or to
determine whether the inability to perform
an essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated (as no such inability exists).
39. By contrast, some examples of
situations where the second part of the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ may be relevant
include: (1) a pregnant construction worker
is told by their health care provider to avoid
lifting more than 20 pounds during the
second through ninth months of pregnancy,
an essential function of the worker’s job
requires lifting more than 20 pounds, and
there is not a reasonable accommodation that
will allow the employee to perform that
function without lifting more than 20
pounds; and (2) a pregnant police officer is
unable because of their pregnancy to perform
patrol duties during the third through ninth
months of pregnancy, patrol duties are an
essential function of the job, and there is not
a reasonable accommodation that will allow
the employee to perform the patrol duties.
40. This definition is solely concerned
with determining whether an individual is
‘‘qualified.’’ An employer may still defend
the failure to provide the reasonable
accommodation based on undue hardship.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(f)(2)(i) Temporary
41. ‘‘Temporary’’ means that the need to
suspend one or more essential functions is
‘‘lasting for a limited time,45 not permanent,
44 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6); see H.R. Rep. No. 117–27,
pt. 1, at 27 (‘‘[T]he temporary inability to perform
essential functions due to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions does not render a worker
‘unqualified.’ . . . [T]here may be a need for a
pregnant worker to temporarily perform other tasks
or otherwise be excused from performing essential
functions before fully returning to her position once
she is able.’’).
45 Temporary, Merriam-Webster.com, https://
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/temporary
(last visited Mar. 13, 2024) (defining ‘‘temporary’’
as ‘‘lasting for a limited time’’). This definition is
consistent with logic in the House Report, which
states that ‘‘the temporary inability to perform
essential functions due to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions does not render a worker
‘unqualified’ ’’ and cites to Robert v. Board of
County Commissioners of Brown County, 691 F.3d
1211, 1218 (10th Cir. 2012). See H.R. Rep. No. 117–
27, pt. 1, at 27, n.109.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

and may extend beyond ‘in the near future.’ ’’
How long it may take before the essential
function(s) can be performed is further
limited by the definition of ‘‘in the near
future.’’
1636.3(f)(2)(ii) In the Near Future
42. An employee can be qualified under
the exception in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6)(A)–(C)
if they could perform the essential
function(s) ‘‘in the near future.’’ In
explaining the inclusion of this additional
definition of ‘‘qualified,’’ the House Report
analogized the suspension of an essential
function under the PWFA to cases under the
ADA regarding leave; ‘‘in the near future’’ is
a term some courts have used in the context
of determining whether an employee can
perform the essential functions of the job
with a reasonable accommodation of leave
and, therefore, is qualified under the ADA.46
These ADA leave cases provide some helpful
guideposts to interpret this term in the
PWFA. Under the ADA, courts have
concluded that an employee who needs
indefinite leave (that is, leave for a period of
time that they cannot reasonably estimate
under the circumstances) cannot perform
essential job functions ‘‘in the near future.’’ 47
Similarly, the Commission concludes that a
need under the PWFA to indefinitely
suspend an essential function(s) cannot
reasonably be considered to meet the
standard of an employee who could perform
the essential function(s) ‘‘in the near
future.’’ 48
43. Pregnancy is a temporary condition
with an ascertainable end date; the request to
temporarily suspend an essential function(s)
due to a current pregnancy will never be
46 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 27–28. As
explained infra, this definition of ‘‘qualified’’ at 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(6)(A)–(C) is not used to determine
‘‘qualified’’ for the purposes of leave under the
PWFA.
47 See, e.g., Herrmann v. Salt Lake City Corp., 21
F.4th 666, 676–77 (10th Cir. 2021); Cisneros v.
Wilson, 226 F.3d 1113, 1129 (10th Cir. 2000),
overruled on other grounds by Bd. of Trs. of Univ.
of Ala. v. Garrett, 531 U.S. 356 (2001). The
Commission cites these ADA cases because they use
the term ‘‘in the near future’’ in a related context
(employees are ‘‘qualified’’ for leave under the ADA
because the leave will allow them to return to work
and perform essential functions ‘‘in the near
future’’). The Commission emphasizes its position,
as discussed below, that under both the PWFA and
the ADA, leave provided as an accommodation does
not constitute a suspension of an essential function.
Thus, under the PWFA, in determining whether an
essential function could be performed ‘‘in the near
future,’’ the period of time during which an
employee may be on leave is not included in the
assessment. Likewise, in determining whether an
individual is qualified for leave as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, the statutory
term ‘‘in the near future’’ is not relevant.
48 However, the Commission notes that the
employee’s inability to pinpoint the exact date
when they expect to be able to perform the essential
functions of the position, or their ability to provide
only an estimated range of dates, does not make the
temporary suspension of the essential function(s)
‘‘indefinite’’ or mean that they cannot perform the
job’s essential functions ‘‘in the near future.’’ The
fact that an exact date is not necessary is supported
by the language in the statute, which requires that
the essential function(s) ‘‘could’’ be performed in
the near future. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6)(B).

PO 00000

Frm 00100

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

indefinite and will not be more than
generally 40 weeks. Thus, for a current
pregnancy, § 1636.3(f) defines ‘‘in the near
future’’ to mean generally 40 weeks from the
start of the temporary suspension of an
essential function(s). To define ‘‘in the near
future’’ as less than generally 40 weeks—i.e.,
the duration of a full-term pregnancy—would
run counter to a central purpose of the PWFA
of keeping pregnant employees in the
workforce even when pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions necessitate the
reasonable accommodation of temporarily
suspending the performance of one or more
essential functions of a job.49
44. The Commission emphasizes that the
definition in § 1636.3(f)(2)(ii) does not mean
that the essential function(s) always must be
suspended for 40 weeks, or that if an
employee seeks the temporary suspension of
an essential function(s) for 40 weeks the
employer must automatically grant it. The
actual length of the temporary suspension of
the essential function(s) will depend upon
what the employee requires, and the covered
entity always has available the defense that
it would create an undue hardship. However,
the mere fact that the temporary suspension
of one or more essential functions is needed
for any time period up to and including
generally 40 weeks for a pregnant employee
will not, on its own, render an employee
unqualified under the PWFA.
45. For conditions other than a current
pregnancy, the Commission is not setting a
specific length of time for ‘‘in the near
future’’ because, unlike a current pregnancy,
there is not a consistent measure of how long
these diverse conditions can generally last,
and thus, what ‘‘in the near future’’ might
mean in different instances.
46. The Commission notes that beyond an
agreement that an indefinite amount of time
does not meet the standard of ‘‘in the near
future,’’ how long a period of leave may be
under the ADA and still be a reasonable
accommodation (thus, allowing the
individual to remain qualified) varies.50 The
49 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 5 (‘‘When
pregnant workers do not have access to reasonable
workplace accommodations, they are often forced to
choose between their financial security and a
healthy pregnancy. Ensuring that pregnant workers
have access to reasonable accommodations will
promote the economic well-being of working
mothers and their families and promote healthy
pregnancies.’’); id. at 22 (‘‘When pregnant workers
are not provided reasonable accommodations on the
job, they are oftentimes forced to choose between
economic security and their health or the health of
their babies.’’); id. at 24 (‘‘Ensuring pregnant
workers have reasonable accommodations helps
ensure that pregnant workers remain healthy and
earn an income when they need it the most.’’); id.
at 33 (‘‘The PWFA is about ensuring that pregnant
workers can stay safe and healthy on the job by
being provided reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
. . . . The PWFA is one crucial step needed to
reduce the disparities pregnant workers face by
ensuring that pregnant women, and especially
pregnant women of color, can remain safe and
healthy at work.’’).
50 See, e.g., Robert, 691 F.3d at 1218 (citing a case
in which a 6-month leave request was too long to
be a reasonable accommodation but declining to
address whether, in the instant case, a further
exemption following the 6-month temporary

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Commission believes, however, that
depending on the facts of a case, leave cases
that allow for a longer period are more
relevant to the determination of ‘‘in the near
future’’ under the PWFA for three reasons.
First, what constitutes ‘‘in the near future’’
may differ depending on factors, including
but not limited to, the known limitation and
the employee’s position. For example, an
employee whose essential job functions
require lifting only during the summer
months would remain qualified even if
unable to lift during a 7-month period over
the fall, winter, and spring months because
the employee could perform the essential
function ‘‘in the near future’’ (in this case, as
soon as the employee was required to
perform that function). Second, the
determination of whether the employee
could resume the essential functions of their
position in the near future is only one step
in the definition of qualified; standing alone,
it does not require the employer to provide
an accommodation. If the temporary
suspension cannot be reasonably
accommodated, or if the temporary
suspension causes an undue hardship, the
employer is not required to provide it.51
accommodation at issue would exceed ‘‘reasonable
durational bounds’’) (citing Epps v. City of Pine
Lawn, 353 F.3d 588, 593 (8th Cir. 2003)); see also
Blanchet v. Charter Commc’ns, LLC, 27 F.4th 1221,
1225–26, 1230–31 (6th Cir. 2022) (determining that
a pregnant employee who developed postpartum
depression and requested a 5-month leave after her
initial return date, and was fired after requesting an
additional 60 days of leave could still be
‘‘qualified,’’ as additional leave could have been a
reasonable accommodation); Cleveland v. Fed.
Express Corp., 83 F. App’x 74, 76–81 (6th Cir. 2003)
(declining ‘‘to adopt a bright-line rule defining a
maximum duration of leave that can constitute a
reasonable accommodation’’ and determining that a
6-month medical leave for a pregnant employee
with systemic lupus could be a reasonable
accommodation); Garcia-Ayala v. Lederle
Parenterals, Inc., 212 F.3d 638, 641–42, 646–49 (1st
Cir. 2000) (reversing the district court’s finding that
a secretary was not a ‘‘qualified individual’’ under
the ADA because additional months of unpaid leave
could be a reasonable accommodation, even though
she had already taken over year of medical leave
for breast cancer treatment, and rejecting per se
rules as to when additional medical leave is
unreasonable); Nunes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 164
F.3d 1243, 1245–1247 (9th Cir. 1999) (opining that,
because extending leave to 9 months to treat a
fainting disorder could be a reasonable
accommodation, an employee’s inability to work
during that period of leave did not automatically
render her unqualified); Cayetano v. Fed. Express
Corp., No. 1:19–CV–10619, 2022 WL 2467735, at
*1–*2, *4–*7 (S.D.N.Y. July 6, 2022) (determining
that an employee who underwent shoulder surgery
could be ‘‘qualified’’ because 6 months of leave is
not per se unreasonable as a matter of law); Durrant
v. Chemical/Chase Bank/Manhattan Bank, N.A., 81
F. Supp. 2d 518, 519, 521–22 (S.D.N.Y. 2000)
(concluding that an employee who was on leave for
nearly 1 year due to a leg injury and extended her
leave to treat a psychiatric condition could be
‘‘qualified’’ under the ADA with the
accommodation of additional leave of reasonable
duration).
51 The Commission is aware of and disagrees with
ADA cases that held, for example, that 2 to 3
months of leave following a 12-week FMLA period
was presumptively unreasonable as an
accommodation. See, e.g., Severson v. Heartland
Woodcraft, Inc., 872 F.3d 476, 481 (7th Cir. 2017).
In any event, such cases have no bearing on the

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Third, as detailed in the notice of proposed
rulemaking (NPRM), especially in the first
year after giving birth, employees may
experience serious health issues related to
their pregnancy that may prevent them from
performing the essential functions of their
positions.52 Accommodating these situations
and allowing employees to stay employed are
among the key purposes of the PWFA.
47. Further, the Commission recognizes
that employees may need an essential
function(s) temporarily suspended because of
a current pregnancy; take leave to recover
from childbirth; and, upon returning to work,
need the same essential function(s) or a
different one temporarily suspended due to
the same or a different physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. In keeping with the
requirement that the determination of
whether an individual is qualified under the
PWFA should be made at the time of the
employment decision,53 the determination of
‘‘in the near future’’ should be made when
the employee asks for each accommodation
that requires the suspension of one or more
essential functions. Thus, an employee who
is 3 months pregnant and who is seeking an
accommodation of the temporary suspension
of an essential function(s) due to a limitation
related to pregnancy will meet the definition
of ‘‘in the near future’’ because the inability
to perform the essential function(s) will end
in less than 40 weeks. When the employee
returns to work from leave after childbirth, if
the employee needs an essential function
temporarily suspended for a reason related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions, there should be a new
determination made as to whether the
employee is qualified under § 1636.3(f)(2). In
other words, there is a new calculation of ‘‘in
the near future’’ with the new employment
decision that involves the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s).54
48. Determining ‘‘in the near future’’ in the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ when the
employment decision is made is necessary
because it would often be difficult, if not
impossible, for a pregnant employee to
predict what their limitations (if any) will be
when returning to work after pregnancy.
While pregnant, they may not know whether
and, if so, for how long, they will have a
known limitation or need an accommodation.
They also may not know whether an
accommodation after returning to work will
determination of ‘‘in the near future’’ under the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for the PWFA because this
definition expressly contemplates temporarily
suspending one or more essential functions.
52 88 FR 54724–25; see, e.g., Susanna Trost et al.,
U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., Ctrs. for Disease
Control & Prevention, Pregnancy-Related Deaths:
Data from Maternal Mortality Review Committees in
36 U.S. States, 2017–2019 (2022), https://
www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/maternalmortality/erase-mm/data-mmrc.html (stating that
53% of pregnancy-related deaths occurred from one
week to one year after delivery, and 30% occurred
one- and one-half months to one year postpartum).
53 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(m).
54 There is a new calculation regardless of
whether the employee seeks to temporarily suspend
the same essential function that was suspended
during pregnancy or a different one.

PO 00000

Frm 00101

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29195

require the temporary suspension of an
essential function(s), and, if so, for how long.
All of these questions may be relevant under
the PWFA’s second definition of ‘‘qualified.’’
49. Leave as a reasonable accommodation
(e.g., for recovery from pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions or any other
purpose) does not count as time when an
essential function(s) is suspended and, thus,
is not relevant for the second part of the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ (§ 1636.3(f)(2)). If an
individual needs leave as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA or, indeed,
any reasonable accommodation other than
the temporary suspension of an essential
function(s), only the first part of the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is relevant
(§ 1636.3(f)(1)). In the case of leave, the
question would be whether the employee,
after returning from the requested period of
leave, would be able to perform the essential
functions of the position with or without
reasonable accommodation (or, if not, if the
inability to perform the essential function(s)
is for a temporary period, the essential
function(s) could be performed in the near
future, and the inability to perform the
essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated). Furthermore, for some
employees, leave to recover from childbirth
will not require a reasonable accommodation
because they have a right to leave under
Federal, State, or local law or under an
employer’s policy.55
1636.3(f)(2)(iii) Can Be Reasonably
Accommodated
50. The second part of the PWFA’s
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ further requires that
the suspension ‘‘can be reasonably
accommodated.’’ 56 For some positions, this
may mean that one or more essential
functions are temporarily suspended, with or
without assigning the essential function(s) to
someone else, and the employee continues to
perform the remaining functions of the job.
For other positions, some of the essential
function(s) may be temporarily suspended,
with or without assigning the essential
function(s) to someone else, and the
employee may be given other tasks to replace
them. In other situations, one or more
essential functions may be temporarily
suspended, with or without giving the
essential function(s) to someone else, and the
employee may perform the functions of a
different job to which the employer
temporarily transfers or moves them, or the
employee may participate in the employer’s
light or modified duty program.57
51. Examples Regarding § 1636.3(f)(2):
Example #1/Definition of ‘‘Qualified’’: One
month into pregnancy, Akira, an employee in
55 For additional information on how leave
should be addressed under the PWFA, see infra in
the Interpretive Guidance in section 1636.3(h)
under Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation.
56 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6)(C).
57 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 27 (‘‘[T]he
temporary inability to perform essential functions
due to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions does not render a worker ‘unqualified.’
. . . [T]here may be a need for a pregnant worker
to temporarily perform other tasks or otherwise be
excused from performing essential functions before
fully returning to her position once she is able.’’).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29196

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

a paint manufacturing plant, is told by her
health care provider that she should avoid
certain chemicals for the remainder of the
pregnancy. One of several essential functions
of the job involves regular exposure to these
chemicals. Akira talks to her supervisor,
explains her limitation, and asks that she be
allowed to continue to perform her other
tasks that do not require exposure to the
chemicals.
1. Known limitation and request for
accommodation: Akira’s need to avoid
exposure to chemicals is a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions; Akira needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation; and
Akira has communicated this information to
her employer.
2. Qualified: If modifications that would
allow Akira to continue to perform the
essential functions of her position (such as
enclosing the chemicals, providing a local
exhaust vent, or providing additional
personal protective gear) are not effective or
cause an undue hardship, Akira can still be
qualified under the definition that allows for
a temporary suspension of an essential
function(s).
a. Akira’s inability to perform the essential
function(s) is temporary.
b. Akira can perform the essential
function(s) of her job in the near future
because she is pregnant and needs an
essential function(s) suspended for less than
40 weeks.
c. Akira’s inability to perform the essential
function(s) may be reasonably
accommodated. The employer can suspend
the essential function(s) that requires her to
work with the chemicals, while allowing her
to do the remainder of her job.
Example #2/Definition of ‘‘Qualified’’: Two
months into a pregnancy, Lydia, a delivery
driver, is told by her health care provider that
she should adhere to clinical guidelines for
lifting during pregnancy, which means she
should not continue to lift 30–40 pounds,
which she routinely did at work when
moving packages as part of the job. She
discusses the limitation with her employer.
The employer is unable to provide Lydia
with assistance in lifting packages, and Lydia
requests placement in the employer’s light
duty program, which is used for drivers who
have on-the-job injuries.
1. Known limitation and request for
accommodation: Lydia’s lifting restriction is
a physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions; she
needs an adjustment or change at work due
to the limitation; and she has communicated
this information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Lydia needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s).
a. Lydia’s inability to perform the essential
function(s) is temporary.
b. Lydia can perform the essential
function(s) of her job in the near future
because Lydia is pregnant and needs an
essential function(s) suspended for less than
40 weeks.
c. Lydia’s need to temporarily suspend an
essential function(s) of her job may be
reasonably accommodated through the
existing light duty program.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Example #3/Definition of ‘‘Qualified’’:
Olga’s position as a carpenter involves lifting
heavy wood that weighs more than 20
pounds. Upon returning to work after giving
birth, Olga tells her supervisor that she has
a lifting restriction of 10 pounds due to her
cesarean delivery. The restriction is for 8
weeks. The employer does not have an
established light duty program but does have
other design or administrative duties that
Olga can perform.
1. Known limitation and request for
accommodation: Olga’s lifting restriction is a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions; she
needs an adjustment or change at work due
to the limitation; and she has communicated
this information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Olga needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s).
a. Olga’s inability to perform the essential
function(s) is temporary.
b. Olga can perform the essential
function(s) of her job in the near future
because she needs the essential function(s)
suspended for 8 weeks.58
c. Olga’s need to temporarily suspend an
essential function(s) of her job may be
reasonably accommodated by temporarily
suspending the essential function(s) and
temporarily assigning Olga to design or
administrative duties.
Example #4/Definition of ‘‘Qualified’’: One
of the essential functions of Elena’s position
as a park ranger involves patrolling the park.
Park rangers also answer questions for guests,
sell merchandise, and explain artifacts and
maps. Due to her postpartum depression,
Elena is experiencing an inability to sleep,
severe anxiety, and fatigue. Her antidepressant medication also is causing
dizziness and blurred vision, which make it
difficult to drive. Elena seeks the temporary
suspension of the essential function of
patrolling the park for 12 weeks.
1. Known limitation and request for
accommodation: Elena’s inability to sleep,
anxiety, fatigue, dizziness, and blurred vision
are physical or mental conditions related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions; she
needs an adjustment or change at work due
to the limitation; and she has communicated
this information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Elena needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s).
a. Elena’s inability to perform the essential
function(s) is temporary.
b. Elena can perform the essential
function(s) of her job in the near future
because she needs an essential function(s)
suspended for 12 weeks.59
58 See Cehrs v. Ne. Ohio Alzheimer’s Rsch. Ctr.,
155 F.3d 775, 781–783 (6th Cir. 1998) (determining
that an employee suffering from severe psoriasis
who was on an 8-week leave of absence and
requested an additional 1-month leave could be
‘‘otherwise qualified’’ under the ADA).
59 See Criado v. IBM Corp., 145 F.3d 437, 443–
43 (1st Cir. 1998) (concluding that an employee
with severe anxiety and depression who was on
leave for approximately 6 weeks and requested an
extension of temporary leave was ‘‘qualified’’ under
the ADA); Durrant, 81 F. Supp. 2d at 519, 521–22
(concluding that an employee who was on leave for

PO 00000

Frm 00102

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

c. Elena’s need to temporarily suspend an
essential function(s) of her job may be
reasonably accommodated by temporarily
suspending the essential function(s) and
temporarily assigning Elena to duties such as
answering questions and selling merchandise
at the visitor’s center.
Example #5/Definition of ‘‘Qualified’’:
Tamara’s position at a retail establishment
involves working as a cashier and folding
and putting away clothing. In her final
trimester of pregnancy, Tamara develops
carpal tunnel syndrome that makes gripping
objects and buttoning clothing difficult.
Tamara seeks the temporary suspension of
the essential functions of folding and putting
away clothing. The employer provides the
accommodation and temporarily assigns
Tamara to greeting and assisting customers,
tasks that cashiers are normally assigned to
on a rotating basis. When she returns to work
after she gives birth, Tamara continues to
experience carpal tunnel symptoms, which
her doctor believes will cease in
approximately 16 weeks.
1. Known limitation and request for
accommodation: Tamara’s inability to grip
objects and button clothing are physical or
mental conditions related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; she needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; and she has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Tamara needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s).
a. Tamara’s inability to perform the
essential function(s) is temporary.
b. Tamara can perform the essential
functions of her job in the near future
because she needs an essential function(s)
suspended for 16 weeks.60
c. Tamara’s need to temporarily suspend
an essential function(s) of her job may be
reasonably accommodated by temporarily
suspending the essential function(s) and
temporarily assigning Tamara to duties such
as greeting and assisting customers.
1636.3(g) Essential Functions
52. Section 1636.3(g) adopts the
Commission’s definition of ‘‘essential
functions’’ contained in the regulation
implementing the ADA.61 Thus, in
determining whether something is an
essential function, the first consideration is
whether employees in the position actually
are required to perform the function. This
consideration will generally include one or
more of the factors listed in § 1636.3(g)(1),
although this list is non-exhaustive. Relevant
evidence as to whether a particular function
nearly 11 months due to a leg injury and extended
her leave to treat a psychiatric condition could be
‘‘qualified’’ under the ADA); Powers v. Polygram
Holding, 40 F. Supp. 2d 195, 199 (S.D.N.Y. 1999)
(determining that an employee experiencing bipolar
disorder who requested a total of 17 weeks of leave
could be ‘‘qualified’’ under the ADA).
60 See Rascon v. U.S. W. Commc’ns, Inc., 143 F.3d
1324, 1333 (10th Cir. 1998) (agreeing that an
employee diagnosed with post-traumatic stress
disorder who requested a 4-month leave for a
treatment program was a ‘‘qualified’’ individual
under the ADA), abrogated on other grounds by
New Hampshire v. Maine, 532 U.S. 742 (2001).
61 See 29 CFR 1630.2(n).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
is essential includes, but is not limited to,
information from the employer (such as the
position description) and information from
incumbents (including the employee
requesting the accommodation) about what
they actually do on the job.62 This includes
whether employees in the position actually
will be required to perform the function
during the time for which an accommodation
is expected to be needed. The list of factors
in § 1636.3(g)(2) is not exhaustive, and other
relevant evidence also may be presented. No
single factor is dispositive, and greater
weight will not be granted to the types of
evidence included on the list than to the
types of evidence not listed.63
1636.3(h) Reasonable Accommodation—
Generally

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(h)(1) Definition of Reasonable
Accommodation
53. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) states
that the term ‘‘reasonable accommodation’’
has the meaning given to it in section 101 of
the ADA 64 and shall be construed as it is
construed under the ADA and the
Commission’s regulation implementing the
PWFA. Thus, under the PWFA, as under the
ADA, the obligation to make reasonable
accommodation is a form of nondiscrimination and is therefore best
understood as a means by which barriers to
the equal employment opportunity are
removed or alleviated.65 A modification or
adjustment is reasonable if it ‘‘seems
reasonable on its face, i.e., ordinarily or in
the run of cases’’; this means it is
‘‘reasonable’’ if it appears to be ‘‘feasible’’ or
‘‘plausible.’’ 66 An accommodation also must
be effective in meeting the qualified
employee’s needs, meaning it removes a
work-related barrier and provides the
employee with equal employment
opportunity.67
54. Under the PWFA, ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ has the same definition as
under the ADA, with the exceptions noted in
items (1) through (3) of this paragraph.68
Therefore, like the ADA, reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA includes:
(1) modifications or adjustments to the job
application process that enable a qualified
applicant with a known limitation to be
considered for the position; (2) modifications
or adjustments to the work environment, or
to the manner or circumstances under which
the position is preformed to allow a qualified
employee with a known limitation to perform
the essential functions of the job; and (3)
modifications or adjustments that enable an
employee with a known limitation to enjoy
equal benefits and privileges of employment
62 See 29 CFR 1630.2(n); 29 CFR part 1630,
appendix, 1630.2(n).
63 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(n).
64 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(9).
65 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix 1630.9.
66 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at General
Principles (quoting Barnett, 535 U.S. at 403–06).
67 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at General
Principles & Question 9; 29 CFR part 1630,
appendix, 1630.9.
68 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

as are enjoyed by its other similarly situated
employees without known limitations.69
55. Because the PWFA also provides for
reasonable accommodations when a qualified
employee temporarily cannot perform one or
more essential functions of a position but can
meet the requirements of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(6)(A)–(C), reasonable
accommodations under the PWFA also
include modifications or adjustments that
allow a qualified employee with a known
limitation to temporarily suspend one or
more essential functions of the position. This
can be either through the essential
function(s) being suspended or through the
essential function(s) being suspended and the
employee doing other work as set out in
§ 1636.3(f)(2)(iii).
1636.3(h)(2) How To Request a Reasonable
Accommodation
56. To request a reasonable
accommodation, the employee (or the
employee’s representative) must
communicate to the employer that they need
an adjustment or change at work due to their
known limitation (a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions). Section 1636.3(d)
applies to communications to request a
reasonable accommodation. An employee
may use plain language and need not
mention the PWFA. An employee does not
have to use the phrases ‘‘reasonable
accommodation,’’ ‘‘limitation,’’ ‘‘known
limitation,’’ ‘‘qualified,’’ or ‘‘essential
function’’; use any medical terminology;
provide a specific medical condition; use any
other specific words or phrases; or put the
69 See 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(i) through (iii). The
requirement for employers to provide reasonable
accommodations when requested that provide for
equal benefits and privileges encompasses the
requirement that an accommodation should provide
the individual with an equal employment
opportunity. 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9.
This requirement stems from the ADA’s prohibition
on discrimination in ‘‘terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment.’’ 42 U.S.C. 12112(a). The
PWFA prohibits adverse action in the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment against a
qualified employee for using or requesting an
accommodation and Title VII—which applies to
employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions—prohibits
discrimination in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment. See 42 U.S.C. 2000e–
2(a)(1). Based on the text of the PWFA, Title VII,
and the requirement under the PWFA that
reasonable accommodation has the same definition
as in the ADA, the same requirement applies. Thus,
a reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
includes a change to allow employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
nondiscrimination in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment or, in shorthand, to enjoy
equal benefits and privileges. See also EEOC,
Compliance Manual Section 613 Terms, Conditions,
and Privileges of Employment, 613.1(a) (1982)
[hereinafter Compliance Manual on Terms,
Conditions, and Privileges of Employment], https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/cm-613-termsconditions-and-privileges-employment (providing
that ‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment’’ are ‘‘to be read in the broadest
possible terms’’ and ‘‘a distinction is rarely made
between terms of employment, conditions of
employment, or privileges of employment’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00103

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29197

explanation of the need for accommodation
in the form of a request.
57. In these examples, the employee is
communicating both their limitation and that
they need an adjustment or change at work
due to the limitation. The Commission
expects that in the vast majority of cases
these two communications will happen at the
same time. All of these are examples of
requests for reasonable accommodations
under the PWFA.
Example #6: A pregnant employee tells her
supervisor, ‘‘I’m having trouble getting to
work at my scheduled starting time because
of morning sickness.’’
Example #7: An employee who gave birth
3 months ago tells the person who assigns
her work at the employment agency, ‘‘I need
an hour off once a week for treatments to
help with my back problem that started
during my pregnancy.’’
Example #8: An employee tells a human
resources specialist that they are worried
about continuing to lift heavy boxes because
they are concerned that it will harm their
pregnancy.
Example #9: At the employee’s request, an
employee’s spouse requests light duty for the
employee because the employee has a lifting
restriction related to pregnancy; the
employee’s spouse uses the employer’s
established process for requesting a
reasonable accommodation.
Example #10: An employee tells a manager
of her need for more frequent bathroom
breaks, explains that the breaks are needed
because the employee is pregnant, but does
not complete the employer’s online form for
requesting an accommodation.
Example #11: An employee tells a
supervisor that she needs time off to recover
from childbirth.
Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to Health
Due to the Known Limitation
58. One reason an employee may seek a
reasonable accommodation is to alleviate
increased pain or risk to health that is
attributable to the physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions that has been
communicated to the employer (the known
limitation).70 When dealing with requests for
accommodation concerning the alleviation of
increased pain or risk to health associated
with a known limitation, the goal is to
provide an accommodation that allows the
qualified employee to alleviate the identified
pain or risk to health.
59. Examples Regarding Alleviating Pain or
Risk to Health Due to the Known Limitation:
Example #12/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Celia is a factory worker whose job
requires her to regularly move boxes that
weigh 50 pounds. Prior to her pregnancy,
Celia occasionally felt pain in her knee when
she walked for extended periods of time.
When Celia returns to work after giving birth,
70 Depending on the facts of the case, the
accommodation sought will allow an applicant to
apply for the position, or an employee to perform
the essential functions of the job, to enjoy equal
benefits and privileges of employment, or to
temporarily suspend an essential function(s) of the
job.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29198

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

which was by cesarean section, Celia
requests that she limit tasks to those that do
not require moving boxes of more than 30
pounds for 3 months because heavier lifting
could increase the risk to her health and her
continued recovery from childbirth. Under
the PWFA, the employer is required to
provide the requested accommodation (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship. However, under the PWFA,
the employer would not be required to
provide an accommodation for Celia’s knee
pain unless it was related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. The employer
also may have accommodation
responsibilities regarding Celia’s knee pain
and lifting restrictions under the ADA.
Example #13/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Emily is a candidate for a police
officer position. The application process
takes place over several months and has
multiple steps, one of which is a physical
agility test. By the time it is Emily’s turn to
take the test, she is 7 months pregnant. To
avoid risk to her health and the health of her
pregnancy, Emily asks that the test be
postponed and that her application be kept
active so that once she has recovered from
childbirth, she can resume the application
process and not have to re-apply. Under the
PWFA, the employer is required to provide
the requested accommodation (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
Example #14/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Jackie’s position at a fabrication plant
involves working with certain chemicals,
which Jackie thinks is the reason she has a
nagging cough and chapped skin on her
hands. For the one year when she is nursing,
Jackie seeks the accommodation of a
temporary suspension of an essential
function—working with the chemicals—
because of the risk that the chemicals will
contaminate the milk she produces. The
employer provides the accommodation. After
Jackie stops nursing, she no longer has any
known limitations. Thus, under the PWFA,
she can be assigned to work with the
chemicals again even if she would prefer not
to do that work, because the PWFA requires
an employer to provide an accommodation
only if it is needed due to a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. Jackie’s employer
may have accommodation responsibilities
under the ADA.
Example #15/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Margaret is a retail worker who is
pregnant. Because of her pregnancy, Margaret
feels pain in her back and legs when she has
to move stacks of clothing from one area to
the other, one of the essential functions of
her position. She can still manage to move
the clothes, but, because of the pain, she
requests a cart to use when she is moving the
garments. Under the PWFA, the employer is
required to provide the requested
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #16/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Lourdes is pregnant and works
outdoors as a farmworker. The conditions
where she works expose her to certain

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

chemicals and the conditions can be
slippery. Because of her pregnancy, Lourdes
has a problem with her balance and is more
likely to slip and fall, and she needs to avoid
exposure to the chemicals that she is
normally exposed to at work. She seeks the
accommodation of working indoors, which
will allow her to avoid the conditions that
could lead her to slip and fall and will allow
her to avoid exposure to the chemicals. There
is indoor work, which Lourdes is
occasionally assigned to perform, available at
the farm, as well as work that does not
involve chemicals. Under the PWFA, the
employer is required to provide the requested
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #17/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Avery works as an administrative
assistant and is pregnant. Avery normally
works in the office and commutes by driving
and public transportation. Due to pregnancy,
Avery is experiencing sciatica; commuting is
painful because it requires Avery to sit and
stand in one position for an extended period
of time. Avery seeks the accommodation of
teleworking or changing the start and end
time of the workday in order to commute
during less crowded times and reduce the
commute time and thereby reduce the pain.
Under the PWFA, the employer is required
to provide the requested accommodation (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship.
Example #18/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Arya is pregnant and works in a
warehouse. When it is hot outside, the
temperature in the warehouse increases to a
level that creates a risk to Arya and her
pregnancy.71 Arya seeks an accommodation
of a portable cooling device to reduce the risk
to her health and the health of her pregnancy
because of the heat in her workplace. Under
the PWFA, the employer is required to
provide the requested accommodation (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship.
Example #19/Alleviating Pain or Risk to
Health: Talia is a nurse and is pregnant. The
community where she lives is experiencing
a surge in cases of a contagious respiratory
viral disease that has been shown to increase
the risk of negative outcomes for pregnancy.
To reduce her risk and the risk to her
pregnancy, Talia requests additional
protective gear and to not be assigned to
patients exhibiting symptoms of this virus.
Under the PWFA, the employer is required
to provide the requested accommodation (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship.
Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation
60. Under the PWFA, leave may be a
reasonable accommodation.72 If an employee
requests leave as an accommodation or if
71 U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., Ctrs. for
Disease Control & Prevention, Heat and Pregnant
Women (Aug. 25, 2022), https://www.cdc.gov/
disasters/extremeheat/heat_and_pregnant_
women.html.
72 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 29 (noting that
‘‘leave is one possible accommodation under the
PWFA, including time off to recover from
delivery’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00104

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

there is no other reasonable accommodation
that does not cause an undue hardship, the
covered entity should evaluate whether to
offer leave as a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA. This is the case even if the
covered entity does not offer leave as an
employee benefit,73 the employee is not
eligible for leave under the employer’s leave
policy, or the employee has exhausted the
leave the covered entity provides as a benefit
(including leave exhausted under a workers’
compensation program, the FMLA, or similar
State or local laws).74
61. The Commission recognizes that there
may be situations where an employer
provides a reasonable accommodation to a
qualified pregnant employee (e.g., a stool,
additional breaks, or temporary suspension
of one or more essential functions) under the
PWFA, and then the employee requests leave
as a reasonable accommodation (e.g., to
recover from childbirth). In these situations,
the covered entity should consider the
request for the reasonable accommodation of
leave to recover from childbirth in the same
manner that it would any other request for
leave as a reasonable accommodation. This
requires first considering whether the
employee will be able to perform the
essential functions of the position with or
without a reasonable accommodation after
the period of leave, or, if not, whether, after
the period of leave, the employee will meet
the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ under
§ 1636.3(f)(2).75
62. A qualified employee with a known
limitation who is granted leave as a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
is entitled to return to their same position
unless the employer demonstrates that
holding open the position would impose an
undue hardship.76 When the employee is
73 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at text preceding
Question 17 (explaining that if an employee with
a disability needs 15 days of leave and an employer
only provides 10 days of paid leave, the employer
should allow the employee to use 10 days of paid
leave and 5 days of unpaid leave). The Commission
has stated in a technical assistance document
regarding leave and the ADA that an employer
should consider providing unpaid leave to an
employee with a disability as a reasonable
accommodation even when the employer does not
offer leave as an employee benefit. See EEOC,
Employer-Provided Leave and the Americans with
Disabilities Act, at text above Example 4 (2016)
[hereinafter Technical Assistance on EmployerProvided Leave], https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/employer-provided-leave-and-americansdisabilities-act.
74 See supra note 73. If an employee has a right
to leave under the FMLA, an employer policy, or
a State or local law, the employee is entitled to
leave regardless of whether they request leave as a
reasonable accommodation. An employee who
needs leave beyond what they are entitled to under
those laws or policies may request a reasonable
accommodation.
75 These considerations are relevant only if the
leave is needed as a reasonable accommodation.
The covered entity should first consider if there is
a leave program that covers the need for leave to
recover from childbirth and for which the employee
is eligible. If there is a leave program that covers
the request, the covered entity may not need to
assess the employee’s ability to perform essential
functions upon return from leave under the PWFA.
76 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 18. As

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

ready to return to work, the employer must
allow the individual to return to the same
position (assuming that there was no undue
hardship in holding it open) if the employee
is still qualified (i.e., the employee can
perform the essential functions of the
position with or without reasonable
accommodation under § 1636.3(f)(1) or if the
employee meets the definition of ‘‘qualified’’
under § 1636.3(f)(2)).77
63. Under the PWFA, an employer does not
have to provide a reasonable accommodation
if it causes an undue hardship—a significant
difficulty or expense. Thus, if an employer
can demonstrate that the impact of the leave
requested as a reasonable accommodation
poses an undue hardship under the factors
set out in § 1636.3(j)(2)—for example,
because of the impact of its length,
frequency, or unpredictable nature, or
because of another factor that causes
significant difficulty or expense—it does not
have to provide the requested leave under the
PWFA.
64. Employees must be permitted to choose
whether to use paid leave (whether accrued,
as part of a short-term disability program, or
as part of any other employee benefit) or
unpaid leave to the same extent that the
covered entity allows employees to choose
between these types of leave when they are
using leave for reasons unrelated to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.78 Similarly, an employer must
continue an employee’s health insurance
benefits during their leave period to the
extent that it does so for other employees in
a similar leave status, such as paid or unpaid
leave. An employer is not required to provide
additional paid leave under the PWFA
beyond the amount provided to similarly
situated employees.79
Ensuring That Employees Are Not Penalized
for Using Reasonable Accommodations
65. Generally, covered entities are not
required to lower production standards for
qualified employees receiving
accommodations under the PWFA.80
However, for example, when the reasonable
accommodation is leave, the employee may
not be able to meet a production standard
during the period of leave or, depending on
the length of the leave, meet that standard for
under the ADA, if an employer cannot hold a
position open during the entire leave period
without incurring undue hardship, the employer
should consider whether it has a vacant, equivalent
position for which the employee is qualified and to
which the employee can be reassigned to continue
their leave for a specific period of time and then,
at the conclusion of the leave, can be returned to
this new position.
77 See id.
78 A failure to allow an employee affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
to use paid or unpaid leave to the same extent that
the covered entity allows employees using leave for
reasons unrelated to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions to do so or a failure to
continue health care insurance for an employee
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to the same extent that a
covered entity does for other employees may be a
violation of Title VII as well.
79 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at text after n.48.
80 See id. at text accompanying n.14.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

a defined period of time (e.g., the production
standard measures production in 1 year and
the employee was on leave for 4 months).
Thus, if the reasonable accommodation is
leave, the production standard may need to
be prorated to account for the reduced
amount of time the qualified employee
worked.81
66. In addition, covered entities making
reasonable accommodations must ensure that
their ordinary workplace policies or
practices—including, but not limited to,
attendance policies, productivity quotas, and
requirements for mandatory overtime—do
not operate to penalize qualified employees
for utilizing PWFA accommodations.82 When
a reasonable accommodation involves a
pause in work—such as a break, a part-time
or other reduced work schedule, or leave—
a qualified employee cannot be penalized, or
threatened with a penalty, for failing to
perform work during that non-work period,
including through actions like the assessment
of penalty points for time off or discipline for
failing to meet a production quota. For
example, if a call center employee with a
known limitation requests and is granted 2
hours of unpaid leave in the afternoon for
rest, the employee’s required number of calls
may need to be reduced proportionately.
Alternatively, the accommodation could
allow for the qualified employee to make up
the time at a different time during the day so
that the employee’s production standards
and pay would not be reduced, as long as this
would not make the accommodation
ineffective.
67. Similarly, policies that monitor
employees for time on task (whether through
automated means or otherwise) and penalize
them for being off task may need to be
modified to avoid imposing penalties for
non-work periods that the qualified
employee was granted as a reasonable
accommodation. This includes situations in
which hours worked or time on task are used
to measure traits like ‘‘productivity,’’
‘‘focus,’’ ‘‘availability,’’ or ‘‘contributions.’’
For example, if, as a reasonable
accommodation, a qualified employee is
excused from working overtime, and
‘‘availability’’ or ‘‘contribution’’ is measured
by an employee’s overtime hours, a qualified
employee should not be penalized in those
categories.
68. If an accommodation under the PWFA
involves the temporary suspension of an
essential function(s) of the position, a
covered entity may not penalize a qualified
employee for not performing the essential
function(s) that has been temporarily
suspended. So, for example, a covered entity
must not penalize a qualified employee for
not meeting a production standard related to
the performance of the essential function(s)
that has been temporarily suspended.
69. Penalizing an employee in these
situations could render the accommodation
ineffective, thus making the covered entity
liable for failing to make reasonable
accommodation.83 It also may be an adverse

29199

action in the terms, conditions, or privileges
of employment or retaliation.84
70. The following examples illustrate
situations where penalizing an employee
may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (failing to
make reasonable accommodation absent
undue hardship), (5) (prohibiting employers
from taking adverse action against an
employee on account of the employee using
a reasonable accommodation), and/or section
2000gg–2(f) (prohibiting retaliation).
Example #20/Not Penalizing Employees:
Arisa works in a fulfillment center that tracks
employee productivity using personal
tracking devices that monitor an employee’s
time on task and how long it takes an
employee to complete a task. If the
technology determines that an employee is
spending insufficient time on task or taking
too long to complete a task, the employee
receives a warning, which can escalate to a
reprimand and further discipline. Arisa is
pregnant and, as a reasonable
accommodation, is permitted to take
bathroom breaks as necessary. Because the
wearable technology determines that due to
the approved additional bathroom breaks
Arisa is spending insufficient time on task,
Arisa receives a warning.
Example #21/Not Penalizing Employees:
Hanh works in a call center that has a ‘‘nofault’’ attendance policy where employees
accrue penalty points for all absences and
late arrivals, regardless of the reason for the
lateness or absence. The policy allows for
discipline or termination when an employee
accrues enough points within a certain time
period. Hanh gave birth and has had some
complications that involve heavy vaginal
bleeding for which she occasionally needs
time off, and she also needs to attend related
medical appointments. She sought, and her
employer provided, the reasonable
accommodations of being able to arrive up to
1 hour late on certain days with time to
attend medical appointments. Despite the
reasonable accommodations, because of the
no-fault policy, Hanh accrues penalty points
under the policy, subjecting her to possible
discipline or termination.
Example #22/Not Penalizing Employees:
Afefa, a customer service agent who is
pregnant, requests two additional 10-minute
rest breaks and additional bathroom breaks,
as needed, during the workday. The
employer determines that these breaks would
not pose an undue hardship and grants the
request. Because of the additional breaks,
Afefa responds to three fewer calls during a
shift. Afefa’s supervisor gives her a lower
performance rating because of her decrease in
productivity.
Personal Use
71. The obligation to provide reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, like that
under the ADA, does not extend to the
provision of adjustments or modifications
that are primarily for the personal benefit of
the qualified employee with a known
limitation. However, adjustments or
modifications that might otherwise be
considered personal may be required as

81 See id. at Question 19.
82 See id.
83 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable

Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 19; see

PO 00000

Frm 00105

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

also 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) and the regulations in
this part.
84 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5); 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29200

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

reasonable accommodations ‘‘where such
items are specifically designed or required to
meet job-related rather than personal
needs.’’ 85
72. For example, if a warehouse employee
is pregnant and is having difficulty sleeping,
the PWFA would not require as a reasonable
accommodation for the employer to provide
a pregnancy pillow to help with sleeping
because that is strictly for an employee’s
personal use. However, allowing the
employee some flexibility in start times for
the workday may be a reasonable
accommodation because it modifies an
employment-related policy. In a different
context, if the employee who is having
trouble sleeping works at a job that involves
sleeping between shifts on-site, such as a job
as a firefighter, sailor, emergency responder,
health care worker, or truck driver, a
pregnancy pillow may be a reasonable
accommodation because the employee is
having difficulty sleeping because of the
pregnancy, the employer is providing pillows
for all employees required to sleep on-site,
and the employee needs a modification of the
pillows provided.
All Services and Programs
73. Under the PWFA, as under the ADA,
the obligation to make reasonable
accommodations applies to all services and
programs provided in connection with
employment and to all non-work facilities
provided or maintained by an employer for
use by its employees, so that employees with
known limitations can enjoy equal benefits
and privileges of employment.86
Accordingly, the obligation to provide
reasonable accommodations, barring undue
hardship, includes providing access to
employer-sponsored placement or counseling
services, such as employee assistance
programs, to employer-provided cafeterias,
lounges, gymnasiums, auditoriums,
transportation, and to similar facilities,
services, or programs.87 This includes
situations where an employee is traveling for
work and may need, for example,
accommodations at a different work site or
during travel.
Interim Reasonable Accommodations
74. An interim reasonable accommodation
can be used when there is a delay in
providing the reasonable accommodation.
For example, an interim reasonable
accommodation may be sought when: there
is a sudden onset of a known limitation
under the PWFA, sometimes as an
emergency, including one that makes it
unsafe, risky, or dangerous to continue
performing the normal tasks of the job; while
the interactive process is ongoing, such as
when an employer is waiting for the arrival
of ordered equipment; or when the employee
is waiting for the employer’s decision on the
accommodation request.
75. Providing an interim reasonable
accommodation is a best practice under the
PWFA and may help limit a covered entity’s
exposure to liability under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(1)), or 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)).
85 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9.
86 See id.
87 See id.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

76. For example, consider a situation
where an employee lets their supervisor
know that they are pregnant and need to
avoid working with certain chemicals in the
workplace. Given the chemicals and the fact
that the employee is pregnant, the employee
needs the change immediately. In this
situation, the best practice is to provide the
employee with an interim reasonable
accommodation that meets the employee’s
needs or limitations and allows the employee
to perform tasks for the benefit of the
employer while the employer determines its
response. This is the best possible situation
for both the employer and the employee, and
the one that the Commission strongly
encourages. In addition, this type of interim
reasonable accommodation could help
mitigate a claim of delay by the employee.88
The shortcomings and risks of two other
approaches an employer might take are
addressed in the following scenarios.
• Require the employee to continue to
work with the chemicals while the employer
determines its response. In this situation, the
employee would be forced to work outside of
their restrictions. In addition to placing the
employee in a situation that the PWFA was
enacted to prevent—choosing between their
health and the health of their pregnancy on
one hand and a paycheck on the other—the
covered entity may be risking liability under
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (if there is an
unnecessary delay in providing the
accommodation), and/or State and Federal
workplace health and safety laws.
• Require the employee to take leave while
the employer determines its response. In this
situation, the employee is not exposed to the
chemicals, so the risk is mitigated. However,
depending on the facts, this option can have
a severely detrimental effect on the
employee—either because the leave is unpaid
or because the employee is forced to use their
paid leave. Meanwhile, the employee is
unable to perform tasks for the employer.
77. Moreover, depending on the facts,
requiring an employee to take unpaid leave
or use their leave after they ask for an
accommodation and are awaiting a response
could lead to a violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
2(f). For example, if the employee is put on
unpaid leave, even though there is paid work
that the employer reasonably could have
given the employee, the employer’s decision
could be retaliatory because it might well
dissuade a reasonable person from engaging
in protected activity, such as asking for an
accommodation under the PWFA. If the
employer’s actions were challenged, the
employer would have to produce a
legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for its
actions. The employee could then show that
the real reason for the action was
retaliation.89 Because the claim would arise
under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), the employee
88 Section 1636.4(a)(1)(vii).
89 See EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on
Retaliation and Related Issues, (II)(C)(1)–(3)
(discussing causation standard and evidence of
causation), (4) (discussing facts that would defeat a
claim of retaliation), and (III) (discussing ADA
interference claims) (2016) [hereinafter Enforcement
Guidance on Retaliation], https://www.eeoc.gov/
laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-retaliationand-related-issues.

PO 00000

Frm 00106

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

would not have to show that they are
qualified under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6), and the
employer would not have recourse to an
undue hardship defense.
78. The possible connection between
requiring leave as an interim reasonable
accommodation and a potential violation of
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) is in keeping with the
purposes of the PWFA. The PWFA
recognizes that historically employees with
limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions have been
required to take leave to their detriment.
Thus, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4) limits the use of
leave as a reasonable accommodation,
prohibiting employers from requiring
qualified employees with known limitations
to take leave as a reasonable accommodation
where there is another reasonable
accommodation that will allow them to
remain at work that does not result in an
undue hardship.
79. Examples Regarding Interim
Reasonable Accommodations:
Example #23/Interim Reasonable
Accommodation: Alicia is pregnant and
works in a fulfillment center. Her job
involves regularly moving boxes that weigh
15 to 20 pounds. On her Saturday shift, she
informs her supervisor, Michelle, that she is
pregnant and that she is worried about lifting
these packages while she is pregnant.
Michelle recognizes that Alicia is requesting
a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA. While Michelle tells Alicia that she
needs to wait until Monday to consult with
human resources on the next steps, Michelle
also immediately offers Alicia a cart to help
move the boxes and assigns her to a line that
has lighter packages. On Monday, Michelle
tells Alicia that she will be provided with a
hoist to help Alicia lift packages, but it will
take a few days before it is installed. In the
meantime, Alicia can continue to use the cart
and work the lighter line. Once the hoist
arrives, Alicia is able to use it while working
on her usual line. If there were an
unnecessary delay in providing the
reasonable accommodation, and if Alicia
were to challenge the delay as constituting a
failure to make an accommodation, the
employer could argue that the interim
reasonable accommodation mitigates its
liability.
Example #24/Interim Reasonable
Accommodation: Nour is pregnant, and she
drives a delivery van. Her employer uses
vans that do not have air conditioning. It is
summer and the temperature is over 100
degrees. Nour tells her supervisor she is
pregnant and needs a change at work because
of the risk to her health and the health of her
pregnancy because of the excessive heat. Her
supervisor orders equipment that will help
Nour, such as a personal cooling vest or neck
fan. While waiting for the equipment to be
delivered, the employer does not have other
possible work that Nour can do. In this
situation, the employer could tell Nour that
she may take leave while waiting for the
equipment to arrive.
Example #25/Interim Reasonable
Accommodation: The scenario is the same as
described in Example #24, but there is office
work that Nour could perform while waiting
for the equipment. Further, there is evidence

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
that the supervisor and others at the covered
entity discussed the idea of giving Nour
office work but decided against it because
then ‘‘every woman is going to come in here
and demand it.’’ In this situation, failing to
provide Nour the opportunity to work in the
office could be a violation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f).
80. Covered entities that do not provide
interim reasonable accommodations are
reminded that an unnecessary delay in
making a reasonable accommodation,
including in responding to the initial request,
in the interactive process, or in providing the
accommodation may result in a violation of
the PWFA if the delay constitutes an
unlawful failure to make reasonable
accommodation, as set forth in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(1)).

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(i) Reasonable Accommodation—
Examples
81. The definition of ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ in § 1636.3(h)(1) tracks the
meaning of the term from the ADA statute,
regulation, and EEOC guidance documents.90
The PWFA, at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3, directs the
Commission to issue regulations providing
examples of reasonable accommodations
addressing known limitations related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions. The
Commission notes that a qualified employee
may need more than one of these
accommodations at the same time, as a
pregnancy progresses, or before, during, or
after pregnancy. This list of possible
reasonable accommodations is nonexhaustive.91
• Frequent breaks. The Commission has
long construed the ADA to require additional
breaks as a reasonable accommodation,
absent undue hardship.92 Under the PWFA,
for example, a pregnant employee might need
more frequent breaks due to shortness of
breath; an employee recovering from
childbirth might need more frequent
restroom breaks or breaks due to fatigue; an
employee who is nursing during work hours,
where the regular location of the employee’s
workplace makes nursing during work hours
a possibility because the child is in close
proximity (for example, if the employee
normally works from home and the child is
there or the child is at a nearby or onsite day
care center), may need additional breaks to
nurse during the workday; 93 or an employee
90 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(9); 29 CFR 1630.2(o);
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12.
91 See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 29
(stating that ‘‘[t]he Job Accommodation Network
(JAN), an ADA technical assistance center . . . lists
numerous potential accommodations . . . including
more than 20 suggested accommodations just for
lifting restrictions related to pregnancy’’).
92 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 22; see
also H.R. Rep. 117–27, pt. 1, at 22; 168 Cong. Rec.
S7,048 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of Sen.
Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S10,081 (daily
ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert P.
Casey, Jr.).
93 The Commission cautions that this provision is
intended to address situations where the employee
and child are in close proximity in the normal
course of business. It is not intended to state that

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

who is lactating might need more frequent
breaks for water, for food, or to pump.94
• Sitting/Standing. The Commission has
recognized the provision of seating for jobs
that require standing and standing for those
that require sitting as potential reasonable
accommodations under the ADA.95 Under
the PWFA, reasonable accommodation of
these needs might include, but is not limited
to, policy modifications and the provision of
equipment, such as seating, a sit/stand desk,
or anti-fatigue floor matting, among other
possibilities.
• Schedule changes, part-time work, and
paid and unpaid leave. Permitting the use of
paid leave (whether accrued, as part of a
short-term disability program, or as part of
any other employee benefit) or providing
unpaid leave is a potential reasonable
accommodation under the ADA.96
Additionally, leave for medical treatment can
be a reasonable accommodation.97 By way of
example, under the PWFA an employee
could need a schedule change to attend a
round of IVF appointments to get pregnant;
a part-time schedule to address fatigue
during pregnancy; or unpaid leave for
recovery from childbirth, medical treatment,
postpartum treatment or recuperation related
to a cesarean section, episiotomy, infection,
depression, thyroiditis, or preeclampsia.
• Telework. Telework (or ‘‘remote work’’
or ‘‘work from home’’) has been recognized
by the Commission as a potential reasonable
accommodation under the ADA.98 Under the
PWFA, telework could be used to
accommodate, for example, a period of bed
rest, a mobility impairment, or a need to
avoid heightened health risk, such as from a
communicable disease.
• Parking. Providing a reserved parking
space if the employee is otherwise entitled to
use employer-provided parking may be a
reasonable accommodation to assist an
employee who is experiencing fatigue or
limited mobility related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.
• Light duty. Assignment to light duty or
placement in a light duty program has been
recognized by the Commission as a potential
there is a right to create proximity to nurse because
of an employee’s preference. Of course, there may
be limitations that would allow an employee to
request as a reasonable accommodation the creation
of proximity (e.g., a limitation that made pumping
difficult or unworkable).
94 Breaks may be paid or unpaid depending on
the employer’s normal policies and other applicable
laws. Breaks may exceed the number that an
employer normally provides because reasonable
accommodations may require an employer to alter
its policies, barring undue hardship.
95 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at General
Principles, Example B; see also H.R. Rep. No. 117–
27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29.
96 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(o); see also
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave,
supra note 73. Additionally, an employer
prohibiting an employee from using accrued leave
for pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions while allowing other employees to use
leave for similar reasons also may violate Title VII.
97 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(o).
98 See, e.g., Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 34.

PO 00000

Frm 00107

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29201

reasonable accommodation, even if the
employer’s light duty positions are normally
reserved for those injured on-the-job and the
person seeking a light duty position as an
accommodation does not have an on-the-job
injury.99
• Making existing facilities accessible or
modifying the work environment.100
Examples of reasonable accommodations
might include allowing access to an elevator
not normally used by employees; moving the
employee’s workspace closer to a bathroom;
providing a fan to regulate temperature;
moving a pregnant or lactating employee to
a different workspace to avoid exposure to
chemical fumes; changing the assigned
worksite of the employee; or modifying the
work space by providing local exhaust
ventilation or providing enhanced personal
protective equipment and training to reduce
exposure to chemical hazards.101 As noted in
the regulation, this also may include
modifications of the work environment to
allow an employee to pump breast milk at
work.102
99 See Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation, supra note 8, at Question 28; see
also 168 Cong. Rec. S7,048 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022)
(statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr.) (‘‘What are
other types of reasonable accommodations that
pregnant workers might request? Light duty is a
common example.’’); id. at S7,049 (statement of
Sen. Patty Murray) (noting that workers need
accommodations because ‘‘their doctors say they
need to avoid heavy lifting’’); H.R. Rep. 117–27, pt.
1, at 14–17 (discussing Young v. United Parcel
Serv., Inc., 575 U.S. 206 (2015), a case involving
light duty for pregnant employees).
100 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(9); 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(ii)
and (o)(2)(i).
101 See, e.g., U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Occupational
Health & Safety Admin., Recommended Practices
for Safety and Health Programs, https://
www.osha.gov/safety-management/hazardprevention (last visited Mar. 18, 2024).
102 On December 29, 2022, President Biden signed
the Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for
Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328,
Div. KK, 136 Stat. 4459, 6093). The law extended
coverage of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938,
as amended (FLSA), 29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.,
protections for nursing employees to apply to most
employees. The FLSA provides most employees
with the right to break time and a place to pump
breast milk at work for a year following the child’s
birth. 29 U.S.C. 218d; U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Field
Assistance Bulletin No. 2023–02: Enforcement of
Protections for Employees to Pump Breast Milk at
Work (May 17, 2023), https://www.dol.gov/sites/
dolgov/files/WHD/fab/2023-2.pdf; U.S. Dep’t of
Lab., Fact Sheet #73: FLSA Protections for
Employees to Pump Breast Milk at Work (Jan. 2023),
https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fact-sheets/73flsa-break-time-nursing-mothers. Employees who
are not covered by the PUMP Act or employees who
seek to pump longer than 1 year may seek
reasonable accommodations regarding pumping
under the PWFA. Further, whether or not
employees are covered by the PUMP Act,
employees may seek under the PWFA any
reasonable accommodations needed for lactation,
including things not necessarily required by the
PUMP Act such as access to a sink, a refrigerator,
and electricity. See, e.g., U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Notice
on Reasonable Break Time for Nursing Mothers, 75
FR 80073, 80075–76 (Dec. 21, 2010) (discussing
space requirements and noting factors such as the
location of the area for pumping compared to the
employee’s workspace, the availability of a sink and
running water, the location of a refrigerator to store

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

Continued

19APR4

29202

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

• Job restructuring.103 Job restructuring
might involve, for example, removing a
marginal function (any nonessential job
function) that requires a pregnant employee
to climb a ladder or occasionally retrieve
boxes from a supply closet, or providing
assistance with manual labor.104
• Temporarily suspending one or more
essential function(s). For some positions, this
may mean that one or more essential
function(s) are temporarily suspended, and
the employee continues to perform the
remaining functions of the job. For others,
the essential function(s) will be temporarily
suspended, and the employee may be
assigned other tasks. For still others, the
essential function(s) will be temporarily
suspended, and the employee may perform
the functions of a different job to which the
employer temporarily transfers or assigns
them. For yet others, the essential function(s)
will be temporarily suspended, and the
employee will participate in the employer’s
light or modified duty program.
• Acquiring or modifying equipment,
uniforms, or devices.105 Examples of
reasonable accommodations might include
providing uniforms and equipment,
including safety equipment, that account for
changes in body size during and after
pregnancy, including during lactation;
providing devices to assist with mobility,
lifting, carrying, reaching, and bending; or
providing an ergonomic keyboard to
accommodate pregnancy-related hand
swelling or tendonitis.
• Adjusting or modifying examinations or
policies.106 Examples of reasonable
accommodations include allowing employees
with a known limitations to postpone
examinations that require physical exertion.
Adjustments to policies also could include
increasing the time or frequency of breaks to
eat or drink or to use the restroom.
82. Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3, the
following are further examples of types of
reasonable accommodations and how they
can be analyzed.107
milk, and electricity may affect the amount of break
time needed). The PUMP Act is enforced by the
Department of Labor, not the EEOC.
103 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(9)(B); 29 CFR
1630.2(o)(2)(ii).
104 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 29.
105 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(9)(B); 29 CFR
1630.2(o)(2)(ii); see also H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.
1, at 28.
106 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(9)(B); 29 CFR
1630.2(o)(2)(ii); see also H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.
1, at 28.
107 As with all the examples in this Interpretive
Guidance, these examples are illustrative only and
are not intended to suggest that these are the only
conditions under which an employee may receive
a reasonable accommodation, or that the reasonable
accommodations sought or given in the examples
are the only ones that should be selected in similar
situations.
For further examples, see the Job Accommodation
Network (JAN), which provides free assistance
regarding workplace accommodation issues. See
generally Job Accommodation Network [hereinafter
JAN], https://askjan.org/ (last visited Mar. 25,
2024). Covered entities and employees also may
seek additional information from the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
(NIOSH). See U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs.,
Ctrs. for Disease Control & Prevention, Nat’l Inst. for

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Example #26/Telework: Gabriela, a billing
specialist in a doctor’s office, experiences
nausea and vomiting beginning in her first
trimester of pregnancy. Because the nausea
makes commuting extremely difficult,
Gabriela makes a verbal request to her
manager stating she has nausea and vomiting
due to her pregnancy and requests that she
be permitted to work from home for the next
2 months so that she can avoid the difficulty
of commuting. The billing work can be done
from her home or in the office.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Gabriela’s
nausea and vomiting is a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; Gabriela needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Gabriela has communicated the
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Gabriela can perform the
essential functions of the job with the
reasonable accommodation of telework.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #27/Temporary Suspension of an
Essential Function: Nisha, a nurse assistant
working in a large elder care facility, is
advised in the fourth month of her pregnancy
to stop lifting more than 25 pounds for the
remainder of the pregnancy. One of the
essential functions of the job is to assist
patients in dressing, bathing, and moving
from and to their beds, tasks that typically
require lifting more than 25 pounds. Nisha
sends an email to human resources asking
that she not be required to lift more than 25
pounds for the remainder of her pregnancy
and requesting a place in the established
light duty program under which employees
who are hurt on the job take on different
duties while coworkers take on their
temporarily suspended duties.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Nisha’s lifting
restriction is a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions; Nisha needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation; Nisha
has communicated that information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Nisha is asking for the
temporary suspension of an essential
function. The suspension is temporary, and
Nisha can perform the essential functions of
the job ‘‘in the near future’’ (generally within
40 weeks). It appears that the inability to
perform the function can be reasonably
accommodated through its temporary
suspension and Nisha’s placement in the
light duty program.
3. The employer must grant the reasonable
accommodation of temporarily suspending
the essential function (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship. As
part of the temporary suspension, the
employer may assign Nisha to the light duty
program.
Occupational Safety & Health, Reproductive Health
and The Workplace, https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/
topics/repro/default.html (last reviewed May 1,
2023).

PO 00000

Frm 00108

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

Example #28: The scenario is the same as
described in Example #27 of this appendix,
except that the employer establishes that the
light duty program is limited to 10 slots and
all 10 slots are filled for the next 6 months.
In these circumstances, the employer should
consider other possible reasonable
accommodations, such as the temporary
suspension of an essential function without
assigning Nisha to the light duty program, or
job restructuring outside of the established
light duty program. If such accommodations
cannot be provided without undue hardship,
then the employer should consider providing
a temporary reassignment to a vacant
position for which Nisha is qualified, with or
without reasonable accommodation. For
example, if the employer has a vacant
position that does not require lifting patients
which Nisha could perform with or without
a reasonable accommodation, the employer
must offer her the temporary reassignment as
a reasonable accommodation, absent undue
hardship.
Example #29/Temporary Suspension of
Essential Function(s): Fatima’s position as a
farmworker usually involves working
outdoors in the field although there also is
indoor work such as sorting produce. After
she returns from giving birth, Fatima
develops postpartum thyroiditis, which has
made her extremely sensitive to heat, and has
contributed to muscle weakness and fatigue.
She seeks the accommodation of a 7-month
temporary suspension of the essential
function of working outdoors in hot weather.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Fatima’s
sensitivity to heat, muscle weakness, and
fatigue are physical or mental conditions
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions; Fatima needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation; Fatima
has communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Fatima is asking for the
temporary suspension of an essential
function. The suspension is temporary, and
Fatima could perform the essential functions
of the job in the near future (7 months). It
appears that the inability to perform the
essential function can be reasonably
accommodated by temporarily assigning
Fatima indoor work, such as sorting produce.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of temporarily suspending
the essential function (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #30/Assistance with Performing
an Essential Function: Mei, a warehouse
worker, uses her employer’s online
accommodation portal to ask for a dolly to
assist her for 3 months in moving items that
are bulky, in order to accommodate lifting
and carrying restrictions due to her cesarean
section.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Mei’s lifting and
carrying restrictions are physical or mental
conditions related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; Mei needs an adjustment
or change at work due to the limitation; Mei
has communicated this information to the
employer.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
2. Qualified: Mei can perform the essential
functions of the job with the reasonable
accommodation of a dolly.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #31/Appropriate Uniform and
Safety Gear: Ava is a police officer and is
pregnant. They ask their union representative
for help getting a larger size uniform and
larger size bullet proof vest in order to cover
their growing pregnancy. The union
representative asks management for an
appropriately-sized uniform and vest for Ava.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Ava’s inability to
wear the standard uniform and safety gear is
a physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions;
Ava needs an adjustment or change at work
due to the limitation; Ava’s representative
has communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Ava can perform the essential
functions of the job with the reasonable
accommodation of appropriate gear.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #32/Temporary Suspension of
Essential Function(s): Darina is a police
officer and is 3 months pregnant. She talks
to human resources about being taken off of
patrol and put on light duty for the
remainder of her pregnancy to avoid physical
altercations and the need to physically
subdue suspects, which may harm her
pregnancy. The department has an
established light duty program that it uses for
officers with injuries that occurred on the
job.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Darina’s inability
to perform certain patrol duties is a physical
or mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; Darina needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Darina has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: The suspension of the
essential functions of patrol duties is
temporary, and Darina can perform the
essential functions of the job in the near
future (within generally 40 weeks). It appears
that the temporary suspension of the
essential functions can be accommodated
through the light duty program.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #33/Temporary Suspension of
Essential Function(s): Rory works in a
fulfillment center where she is usually
assigned to a line that requires moving 20pound packages. After returning from work
after giving birth, Rory lets her supervisor
know that she has a lifting restriction of 10
pounds due to sciatica during her pregnancy
that continues postpartum. The restriction is
for 6 months. The employer does not have an
established light duty program. There are
other lines in the warehouse that do not
require lifting more than 10 pounds.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Rory’s lifting

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

restriction is a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions; Rory needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation; Rory
has communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: The suspension of the
essential function of lifting packages that
weigh up to 10 pounds is temporary, and
Rory can perform the essential function in
the near future (6 months). It appears that the
temporary suspension of the essential
function could be accommodated by
temporarily assigning her to a different line.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #34/Unpaid Leave: Tallah, a
newly hired cashier at a small bookstore, has
a miscarriage in the third month of
pregnancy and asks a supervisor for 10 days
of leave to recover. As a new employee,
Tallah has only earned 2 days of paid leave,
she is not covered by the FMLA, and the
employer does not have a company policy
regarding the provision of unpaid leave.
Nevertheless, Tallah is covered by the PWFA.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Tallah’s need for
time for recovery is a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; Tallah needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Tallah has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: After the reasonable
accommodation of leave, Tallah will be able
to perform the essential functions of the job
with or without accommodation.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent an undue
hardship.
Example #35/Unpaid Leave for Prenatal
Appointments: Margot started working at a
retail store shortly after she became pregnant.
She has an uncomplicated pregnancy.
Because she has not worked at the store very
long, she has earned very little leave and is
not covered by the FMLA. In her fifth month
of pregnancy, she asks her supervisor for the
reasonable accommodation of unpaid time
off beyond the leave she has earned to attend
her regularly scheduled prenatal
appointments.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Margot’s need to
attend health care appointments is a physical
or mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; Margot needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Margot has communicated the
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Margot can perform the
essential functions of the job with the
reasonable accommodation of leave to attend
health care appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid time off (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship.
Example #36/Unpaid Leave for Recovery
from Childbirth: Sofia, a custodian, is

PO 00000

Frm 00109

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29203

pregnant and will need 6 to 8 weeks of leave
to recover from childbirth. Sofia is nervous
about asking for leave, so Sofia asks her
mother, who knows the owner, to do it for
her. The employer has a sick leave policy,
but no policy for longer periods of leave.
Sofia is not eligible for FMLA leave because
her employer is not covered by the FMLA.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Sofia’s need to
recover from childbirth is a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; Sofia needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Sofia’s representative has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: After the reasonable
accommodation of leave, Sofia will be able to
perform the essential functions of the job
with or without reasonable accommodation.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
Example #37/Unpaid Leave for Medical
Appointments: Taylor, a newly hired member
of the waitstaff, requests time off to attend
therapy appointments for postpartum
depression. As a new employee, Taylor has
not yet accrued sick or personal leave and is
not covered by the FMLA. Taylor asks her
manager if there is some way that she can
take time off.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Taylor’s need to
attend health care appointments is a physical
or mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; Taylor needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Taylor has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Taylor can perform the
essential functions of the job with a
reasonable accommodation of time off to
attend the health care appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent an undue hardship.
Example #38/Unpaid Leave: Claudine is 6
months pregnant and asks for leave so that
she can attend her regular check-ups. The
clinic where Claudine gets her health care is
an hour drive away, the clinic frequently gets
delayed, and Claudine has to wait for her
appointment. Depending on the time of day,
between commuting to the appointment,
waiting for the appointment, and seeing her
provider, Claudine may miss all or most of
an assigned day at work. Claudine’s
employer is not covered by the FMLA, and
Claudine does not have any sick leave left.
Claudine asks human resources for time off
as a reasonable accommodation so she can
attend her medical appointments.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Claudine’s need
to attend health care appointments is a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions;
Claudine needs an adjustment or change at
work due to the limitation; Claudine has
communicated that information to the
employer.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29204

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

2. Qualified: Claudine can perform the
essential functions of the job with a
reasonable accommodation of time off to
attend health care appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #39/Telework: Raim, a social
worker, is pregnant. As her third trimester
starts, she is feeling more fatigue and needs
more rest. She asks her supervisor if she can
telework and see clients virtually so she can
lie down and take rest breaks between client
appointments.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Raim’s fatigue is
a physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions;
Raim needs an adjustment or change at work
due to the limitation; Raim has
communicated that information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Assuming the appointments
can be conducted virtually, Raim can
perform the essential functions of the job
with the reasonable accommodation of
working virtually. If there are certain
appointments that must be done in person,
the reasonable accommodation could be a
few days of telework a week and then other
accommodations that would give Raim time
to rest, such as assigning Raim in-person
appointments at times when traffic will be
light so that they are easy to get to, or setting
up Raim’s assignments so that on the days
when she has in-person appointments she
has breaks between them. Or the reasonable
accommodation can be the temporary
suspension of the essential function of inperson appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #40/Temporary Workspace/
Possible Temporary Suspension of Essential
Function(s): Brooke, a research assistant who
is in her first trimester of pregnancy, asks the
lead researcher in the laboratory for a
temporary workspace that would allow her to
work in a well-ventilated area because her
work involves hazardous chemicals that her
health care provider has told her to avoid.
There are several research projects she can
work on that do not involve exposure to
hazardous chemicals.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Brooke’s need to
avoid the chemicals related to maintaining
her health or the health of her pregnancy is
a physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions;
Brooke needs an adjustment or change at
work due to the limitation; Brooke has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: If working with hazardous
chemicals is an essential function of the job,
Brooke may be able to perform that function
with the accommodation of a well-ventilated
work area, a chemical fume hood, local
exhaust ventilation, and/or personal
protective equipment such as chemicalresistant gloves, a lab coat, and a powered
air-purifying respirator. If providing these

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

modifications would be an undue hardship
or would not be effective, Brooke can still be
qualified with the temporary suspension of
the essential function of working with the
hazardous chemicals because Brooke’s
inability to work with hazardous chemicals
is temporary, and Brooke can perform the
essential functions of the job in the near
future (within generally 40 weeks). Her need
to avoid exposure to hazardous chemicals
also can be accommodated by allowing her
to focus on the other research projects.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation), absent undue hardship. If
the employer cannot accommodate Brooke in
a way that allows Brooke to continue to
perform the essential function(s) of the
position, the employer should consider
providing alternative reasonable
accommodations, including temporarily
suspending one or more essential functions,
absent undue hardship.
Example #41/Temporary Transfer to
Different Location: Katherine, a budget
analyst who has cancer also is pregnant,
which creates complications for her cancer
treatment. She asks her manager for a
temporary transfer so that she can work out
of an office in a larger city that has a medical
center that can address her medical needs
due to the combination of cancer and
pregnancy. Katherine is able to do all her
essential functions for the original office from
the employer’s other location and can
continue to work full-time while obtaining
treatment.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Katherine’s need
for treatment at a particular medical facility
related to maintaining her health or the
health of the pregnancy is a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions; Katherine needs
an adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation; Katherine has communicated that
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Katherine is able to perform
the essential functions of the job and work
full-time with the reasonable accommodation
of a temporary transfer to a different location.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship. A
reasonable accommodation can include a
workplace change to facilitate medical
treatment, including accommodations such
as leave, a schedule change, or a temporary
transfer to a different work location needed
in order to obtain treatment.
Example #42/Pumping Breast Milk: Salma
gave birth 13 months ago and wants to be
able to pump breast milk at work. Salma
works for an employment agency that sends
her to different jobs for a day or week at a
time. Salma asks the person at the agency
who makes her assignments to ensure she
will be able to take breaks and have a space
to pump breast milk at work at her various
assignments.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Salma’s need to
express breast milk is a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical

PO 00000

Frm 00110

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

conditions; Salma needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation; Salma
has communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Salma is able to perform the
essential functions of the jobs to which she
is assigned with the reasonable
accommodation of being assigned to
workplaces where she can pump at work.
3. The agency must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #43/Commuting: Jayde is a retail
clerk who gave birth 2 months ago. Because
of childbirth, Jayde is experiencing urinary
incontinence, constipation, and hemorrhoids.
Jayde normally commutes by driving 45
minutes; because of the limitations due to
childbirth, it is painful for Jayde to sit in one
position for an extended period, and Jayde
may need a bathroom during the commute.
Jayde requests the reasonable
accommodation of working at a different,
closer store for 2 months. The commute to
this other store is only 10 minutes.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Jayde’s urinary
incontinence, constipation, and hemorrhoids
are physical or mental conditions related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions;
Jayde needs an adjustment or change at work
due to the limitation; Jayde has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Jayde can perform the
essential functions of the job with the
reasonable accommodation of a temporary
assignment to a different location.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example #44/Medications Affected by
Pregnancy: Riya is a data analyst who is
pregnant, and her health care provider
recommended that she stop taking her
current ADHD medication and switch to
another medication. As Riya is adjusting to
her new medication, she finds it more
difficult to concentrate and asks for more
frequent breaks, a quiet place to work, and
for her tasks to be divided up into smaller
duties.
1. Known limitation and request for
reasonable accommodation: Riya’s difficulty
concentrating due to her change in
medication is a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions; Riya needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation; Riya
has provided this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Riya can perform the essential
functions of the job with the reasonable
accommodation of more frequent breaks, a
quiet place to work, and division of her tasks
into smaller duties.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
1636.3(j) Undue Hardship
1636.3(j)(1) Undue Hardship—In General
83. The PWFA provides that ‘‘undue
hardship’’ shall be construed under the

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
PWFA as it is under the ADA and as set forth
in this part.108 This part, at § 1636.3(j)(1),
reiterates the definition of undue hardship
provided in the ADA statute and regulation,
which explains that undue hardship means
significant difficulty or expense incurred by
a covered entity.109 Because the definition of
undue hardship under the PWFA follows the
ADA, under the PWFA the term ‘‘undue
hardship’’ means significant difficulty or
expense in, or resulting from, the provision
of the accommodation. The ‘‘undue
hardship’’ provision takes into account the
financial realities of the particular employer
or other covered entity. However, the concept
of undue hardship is not limited to financial
difficulty. ‘‘Undue hardship’’ refers to any
accommodation that would be unduly costly,
extensive, substantial, or disruptive, or that
would fundamentally alter the nature or
operation of the business.110
84. As under the ADA, if an employer
asserts undue hardship based on cost, then
there will be a determination made regarding
whose financial resources should be
considered.111 Further, in determining
whether an accommodation causes an undue
hardship an employer cannot simply assert
that a needed accommodation will cause it
undue hardship and thereupon be relieved of
the duty to provide accommodation. Rather,
an employer will have to present evidence
and demonstrate that the accommodation
will, in fact, cause it undue hardship.
Whether a particular accommodation will
impose an undue hardship for a particular
employer is determined on a case-by-case
basis. Consequently, an accommodation that
poses an undue hardship for one employer at
a particular time may not pose an undue
hardship for another employer, or even for
the same employer at another time.112
85. As the Commission has stated under
the ADA, ‘‘[u]ndue hardship must be based
on an individualized assessment of current
circumstances that show that a specific
reasonable accommodation would cause
significant difficulty or expense.’’ 113
86. Additionally, an employer cannot
demonstrate undue hardship based on
employees’, clients’, or customers’ fears or
prejudices toward the employee’s pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions, nor
can an employer demonstrate undue
hardship based on the possibility that the
provision of an accommodation would
negatively impact the morale of other
employees.114 Employers, however, may be

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

108 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).
109 42 U.S.C. 12111(10)(A); 29 CFR 1630.2(p); see
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at text after n.112.
110 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(p).
The ADA defines ‘‘undue hardship’’ at 42 U.S.C.
12111(10).
111 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(p).
112 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.15(d).
113 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at text
accompanying n.113.
114 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.15(d)
(explaining that under the ADA an employer cannot
show undue hardship based on employees’ fears or
prejudices toward the individual’s disability or by
showing that the provision of the accommodation
has a negative impact on the morale of its other

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

able to show undue hardship where the
provision of an accommodation would be
unduly disruptive to other employees’ ability
to work.
87. Consistent with the ADA, a covered
entity asserting that a reasonable
accommodation will cause an undue
hardship must offer other reasonable
accommodations that it can provide, absent
undue hardship.115 Additionally, if the
employer can provide only part of the
reasonable accommodation absent undue
hardship—for example, the employer can
provide 6 weeks of leave absent undue
hardship but the 8 weeks that the employee
is seeking would cause undue hardship—the
employer must provide the reasonable
accommodation up to the point of undue
hardship. Thus, in the example, the employer
would have to provide 6 weeks of leave and
then consider whether there are other
reasonable accommodations it could provide
for the remaining 2 weeks that would not
cause an undue hardship.
1636.3(j)(2) Undue Hardship Factors
88. Section 1636.3(j)(2) sets out factors to
be considered when determining whether a
particular accommodation would impose an
undue hardship on the covered entity using
the factors from the ADA regulation.116
89. Examples Regarding Undue Hardship:
Example #45/Undue Hardship: Patricia, a
convenience store clerk, requests that she be
allowed to switch from full-time to part-time
work for the last 3 months of her pregnancy
due to extreme fatigue. The store assigns two
clerks per shift. If Patricia’s hours are
reduced, the other clerk’s workload will
increase significantly beyond his ability to
handle his responsibilities. The store
determines that such an arrangement will
result in inadequate coverage to serve
customers in a timely manner, keep the
shelves stocked, and maintain store security.
It also would be infeasible for the store to
hire a temporary worker on short notice at
this time. Based on these facts, the employer
likely can show undue hardship based on the
significant disruption to its operations and,
therefore, can refuse to reduce Patricia’s
hours. The employer, however, must offer
other reasonable accommodations, such as
providing a stool and allowing rest breaks
throughout the shift, assuming they do not
cause undue hardship.
Example #46/Undue Hardship: Shirin, a
dental hygienist who is undergoing IVF
treatments, needs to attend medical
appointments for the IVF treatment near her
house every other day and is fatigued. She
asks her supervisor if the essential function
of seeing patients can be temporarily
suspended, so that she does not see patients
3 days a week and instead can work from
employees but not on the ability of these employees
to perform their jobs); Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 12, at text
surrounding n.117; cf. Groff v. DeJoy, 600 U.S. 447,
472 (2023) (providing that, under the Title VII
undue hardship standard, an employer may not
justify refusal to accommodate based on other
employees’ bias or hostility).
115 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at text after n.116.
116 See 29 CFR 1630.2(p).

PO 00000

Frm 00111

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29205

home on those days assisting with billing and
insurance claims, work for which she is
qualified. Temporarily suspending the
essential function of seeing patients and
allowing Shirin to work at home may be an
undue hardship for the employer because
there is only one other hygienist and there is
not enough work for Shirin to do remotely.
However, the employer must offer other
reasonable accommodations, such as a
schedule that would allow Shirin breaks
between patients, part-time work, permitting
her to work from home for 1 or 2 days, or
a reduced schedule, assuming they do not
cause undue hardship.
Example #47/Undue Hardship: Cynthia, an
office manager working in a large building,
has asthma that she controls with
medication. Because of her pregnancy, her
asthma becomes worse, and she requests a
ban on airborne irritants and chemicals (e.g.,
fragrances, sprays, cleaning products) in the
building. The employer could potentially
show that ensuring a workplace completely
free of any scents or irritants would impose
a significant financial and administrative
burden on it, as a ban would be difficult to
enforce and encompass a wide variety of
hygiene and cleaning products. Nevertheless,
the employer must offer alternative
accommodations, such as providing an air
purifier, minimizing the use of irritants in
her vicinity, or allowing her to telework,
assuming they do not cause undue hardship.
1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—Temporary
Suspension of an Essential Function(s)
90. In certain circumstances, the PWFA
requires an employer to accommodate an
employee’s temporary inability to perform
one or more essential functions. Therefore,
§ 1636.3(j)(3) provides additional factors that
may be considered when determining
whether the temporary suspension of one or
more essential functions causes an undue
hardship. These additional factors include:
the length of time that the employee will be
unable to perform the essential function(s);
whether, through the methods listed in
§ 1636.3(f)(2)(iii) (describing potential
reasonable accommodations related to the
temporary suspension of essential
function(s)) or otherwise, there is work for
the employee to accomplish; 117 the nature of
the essential function(s), including its
frequency; whether the covered entity has
provided other employees in similar
positions who are unable to perform essential
function(s) of their positions with temporary
suspensions of those function(s) and other
duties; if necessary, whether or not there are
other employees, temporary employees, or
third parties who can perform or be
temporarily hired to perform the essential
function(s) in question; and whether the
essential function(s) can be postponed or
remain unperformed for any length of time
and, if so, for how long.
91. As with other reasonable
accommodations, if the covered entity can
establish that accommodating an employee’s
temporary suspension of an essential
function(s) would impose an undue hardship
117 The employer is not required to make up work
for an employee.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29206

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

if extended beyond a certain period of time,
the covered entity would only be required to
provide that accommodation for the period of
time that it does not impose an undue
hardship. For example, consider the situation
where an employee seeks to have an essential
function suspended for 6 months. The
employer can go without the function being
accomplished for 4 months, but after that, it
will create an undue hardship. The employer
must accommodate the employee’s inability
to perform the essential function for 4
months and then consider whether there are
other reasonable accommodations that it can
provide, absent undue hardship, for the
remaining time.
92. Section 1636.3(j)(3)(iv) is intended to
account for situations where the covered
entity has provided a similar accommodation
to other employees. If the covered entity has
temporarily suspended essential functions
for other employees in similar positions
before, it would tend to demonstrate that the
accommodation is not an undue hardship.
The reverse, however, is not true. A covered
entity’s failure to temporarily suspend an
essential function(s) in the past does not tend
to demonstrate that the accommodation
creates an undue hardship because
reasonable accommodation can include
changing workplace procedures or rules.
1636.3(j)(4) Undue Hardship—Predictable
Assessments 118

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

93. The Commission has identified a
limited number of simple modifications that
will, in virtually all cases, be found to be
reasonable accommodations that do not
impose an undue hardship when requested
by a qualified employee due to pregnancy.
94. These modifications are: (1) allowing
an employee to carry or keep water near and
drink, as needed; (2) allowing an employee
to take additional restroom breaks, as needed;
(3) allowing an employee whose work
requires standing to sit and whose work
requires sitting to stand, as needed; and (4)
allowing an employee to take breaks to eat
and drink, as needed.119 These
accommodations are low cost and unlikely to
affect the overall financial resources of the
covered entity, the operations of the facility,
or the ability of the facility to conduct
118 The term ‘‘predictable assessments’’ also is
seen in the ADA regulations, where it applies to
establishing coverage. In the ADA, ‘‘predictable
assessments’’ are impairments that will ‘‘in
virtually all cases’’ be considered a disability
covered by the ADA. 29 CFR 1630.2(j)(3). As used
in this PWFA rule, however, the term relates to
accommodations, not limitations or disabilities.
119 The first and fourth categories of predictable
assessments are related but separate. The first
category of accommodations addresses an
employee’s ability to carry water on the employee’s
person while they perform their job duties, or their
ability to have water nearby while working, without
requiring the employee to take a break to access and
drink it. The fourth category of accommodations
addresses an employee’s ability to take additional,
short breaks in performing work (either at the
employee’s work location or a break location) to eat
and drink (including beverages that are not water).
Additionally, depending on the worksite, any
employee may be able to eat or drink at the work
location without taking a break.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

business.120 By identifying these predictable
assessments, the Commission seeks to
improve how quickly employees will be able
to receive certain simple, common
accommodations for pregnancy under the
PWFA and thereby reduce litigation.
95. The Commission emphasizes that the
predictable assessments provision does not
alter the meaning of the term ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ or ‘‘undue hardship.’’
Employers should still conduct an
individualized assessment when one of these
accommodations is requested by a pregnant
employee to determine if the requested
accommodation causes an undue hardship,
and employers may still bring forward facts
to demonstrate that the proposed
accommodation imposes an undue hardship
for its business under its own particular
circumstances. Instead, the provision informs
covered entities that the individualized
assessment of whether one of the
straightforward and simple modifications
listed in paragraphs (j)(4)(i) through (iv) is a
reasonable accommodation that would cause
undue hardship will, in virtually all cases,
result in a determination that the four
modifications are reasonable
accommodations that will not impose an
undue hardship under the PWFA when they
are requested as workplace accommodations
by an employee who is pregnant.
96. Examples Regarding Predictable
Assessments:
Example #48/Predictable Assessments:
Amara, a quality inspector for a
manufacturing company, experiences painful
swelling in her legs, ankles, and feet during
the final 3 months of her pregnancy. Her job
requires standing for long periods of time,
although it can be performed sitting as well.
Amara asks the person who assigns her daily
work for a stool to sit on while she performs
her job. Amara’s swelling in her legs and
ankles is a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy. Amara’s request is for a
modification that will virtually always be a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship. The employer
argues that it has never provided a stool to
any other worker who complained of
difficulty standing, but points to nothing that
suggests that this modification is not
reasonable or that it would impose an undue
hardship on the operation of the employer’s
business. The employer has not established
that providing Amara a stool imposes an
undue hardship.
Example #49/Predictable Assessments:
Jazmin, a pregnant teacher who typically is
only able to use the bathroom when her class
is at lunch, requests additional bathroom
breaks during her sixth month of pregnancy.
Jazmin’s need for additional bathroom breaks
is a physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy. The
employer argues that finding an adult to
watch over the Jazmin’s class when she
needs to take a bathroom break imposes an
undue hardship. However, there are several
120 As explained in the NPRM, the Commission
identified these modifications based on the
legislative history of the PWFA and analogous State
laws. 88 FR 54734.

PO 00000

Frm 00112

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

teachers in nearby classrooms, aides in some
classes, and an administrative assistant in the
front office, any of whom, with a few
minutes’ notice, would be able to provide
supervision either by standing in the hallway
between classes or sitting in Jazmin’s
classroom to allow Jazmin a break to use
bathroom. The employer has not established
that providing Jazmin with additional
bathroom breaks imposes an undue hardship.
Example #50/Predictable Assessments:
Addison, a clerk responsible for receiving
and filing construction plans for
development proposals, needs to maintain a
regular intake of water throughout the day to
maintain a healthy pregnancy. They ask their
manager if an exception can be made to the
office policy prohibiting liquids at
workstations. Addison’s need to maintain a
regular intake of water is a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy. Here, although the manager
decides against allowing Addison to bring
water into their workstation, he proposes that
a table be placed just outside the workstation
and gives permission for Addison to access
water placed on the table as needed. The
employer has satisfied its obligation to
provide a reasonable accommodation.
Undue Hardship—Consideration of Prior or
Future Accommodations
97. An employer may consider the current
impact of past and current cumulative costs
or burdens of accommodations that have
already been granted to other employees or
the same employee, when considering
whether a new request for the same or a
similar accommodation imposes an undue
hardship. For example, where an employer is
already allowing two of the three employees
who are able to open the store to arrive after
opening time on certain days, it could pose
an undue hardship to grant the
accommodation of a delayed arrival time to
the third employee on those same days.
98. The fact that an employer has provided
the same or similar accommodations in the
past may indicate that the accommodation
can be provided without causing an undue
hardship. Additionally, even if an employer
previously failed to provide an employee a
similar type of accommodation, if the
employer intends to assert that providing the
accommodation to another employee would
pose an undue hardship, the employer
should engage in the interactive process with
the employee regarding the currently
requested accommodation and determine
whether the same conditions that previously
imposed an undue hardship still exist.
Ultimately, whether a particular
accommodation will impose an undue
hardship for an employer is determined on
a case-by-case basis.
99. While an employer may consider the
impact of prior accommodations granted to
the employee currently seeking an
accommodation, the mere fact that an
employee previously received an
accommodation or, indeed, several
accommodations, does not establish that it
would impose an undue hardship on the
employer to grant a new accommodation.
100. Thus, for example, the fact that an
employer already has provided an employee
with an accommodation, such as the

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
temporary suspension of an essential
function due to their pregnancy, does not
establish that providing this accommodation
due to a post-pregnancy limitation would be
an undue hardship. Instead, the employer
would have to provide evidence showing that
continuing the temporary suspension would
impose an undue hardship. This showing
could include, for example, evidence
demonstrating why and how the cumulative
impact of having already provided the
accommodation during pregnancy makes the
current impact of providing it post-pregnancy
rise to the level of significant difficulty or
expense.
101. A covered entity cannot demonstrate
that a reasonable accommodation imposes an
undue hardship based on the possibility—
whether speculative or near certain—that it
will have to provide the accommodation to
other employees in the future.121 Relatedly,
a covered entity that receives numerous
requests for the same or similar
accommodations at the same time (for
example, parking spaces closer to the factory)
cannot fail to provide all of them simply
because processing the volume of current or
anticipated requests is, or would be,
burdensome or because it cannot grant all of
them. Rather, the covered entity must
evaluate and provide reasonable
accommodations on a case-by-case basis
unless, or until, doing so imposes an undue
hardship.
102. Finally, for the purposes of an
employer asserting undue hardship based on
the impact of prior or future
accommodations, as with any assertion of an
undue hardship, ‘‘[g]eneralized conclusions
will not suffice to support a claim of undue
hardship. Instead, undue hardship must be
based on an individualized assessment of
current circumstances that show that a
specific reasonable accommodation would
cause significant difficulty or expense.’’ 122
Undue Hardship and Safety
103. An employer’s contention that the
accommodation an employee requests would
cause a safety risk to co-workers or clients
will be assessed under the PWFA’s undue
hardship standard. For example, consider a
qualified pregnant employee in a busy
fulfillment center that has narrow aisles
between the shelves of products. The
employee asks for the reasonable
accommodation of a cart to use while they
are walking through the aisles filling orders.
The employer’s assertion that the aisles are
too narrow and its concern for the safety of
other workers being bumped by the cart
could be raised as a defense based on undue
hardship, specifically § 1636.3(j)(2)(v), but
the employer will have to demonstrate that
the accommodation would actually pose an
undue hardship.
104. If a particular reasonable
accommodation causes an undue hardship
because of safety, just as with any other
situation where an employer cannot provide
the requested accommodation, the employer
must provide an alternative reasonable
accommodation, if there is one available that
121 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at n.113.
122 See id., text at n.113.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

does not impose an undue hardship.
Importantly, assertions by employers that
employees create a safety risk merely by
being pregnant (as opposed to a safety risk
that stems from an accommodation for a
pregnancy-related limitation) should be
addressed under Title VII’s bona fide
occupational qualification (BFOQ) standard
and not under the PWFA.123
1636.3(k) Interactive Process
105. The PWFA states that the interactive
process will typically be used to determine
an appropriate reasonable
accommodation.124 Section 1636.3(k) largely
adopts the explanation of the interactive
process in the regulation implementing the
ADA.125 Section 1636.3(k) defines the
interactive process as an informal, interactive
process and states that the process should
identify the known limitation and the
adjustment or change at work that is needed
due to the limitation, if either of these are not
clear from the request, as well as potential
reasonable accommodations.
106. There are no rigid steps that must be
followed when engaging in the interactive
process under the PWFA, and information
provided by the employee does not need to
be in any specific format, include specific
words, or be on a specific form.
107. In many instances, the appropriate
reasonable accommodation may be obvious
to either or both the employer and the
employee with the known limitation so that
the interactive process can be a brief
discussion. The request and granting of the
accommodation can occur in a single
informal conversation or short email
exchange.126
108. Examples Regarding the Interactive
Process:
Example #51/Interactive Process: Marge
works at an assembly plant. She is 5 weeks
pregnant. She knows that staying hydrated is
important during pregnancy. She texts her
supervisor that she is pregnant and that she
needs to carry water with her and use the
bathroom more frequently. Her supervisor
explains how Marge can call for a substitute
when she needs a break, and Marge uses that
system when she needs to drink water or go
to the bathroom.
123 See, e.g., UAW v. Johnson Controls, 499 U.S.
187, 211 (1991) (striking down the employer’s fetal
protection policy that limited the opportunities of
women); Everts v. Sushi Brokers LLC, 247 F. Supp.
3d 1075, 1082–83 (D. Ariz. 2017) (relying on
Johnson Controls and denying BFOQ defense in a
case regarding a pregnant employee as a restaurant
server, noting that, ‘‘[u]nlike cases involving
prisoners and dangers to customers where a BFOQ
defense might be colorable, the present situation is
exactly the type of case that Title VII guards
against’’); EEOC v. New Prime, Inc., 42 F. Supp. 3d
1201, 1213–14 (W.D. Mo. 2014) (relying on Johnson
Controls and denying a policy allegedly in place for
the ‘‘privacy’’ and ‘‘safety’’ of women employees
was a BFOQ); Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 24, at (I)(B)(1)(c).
124 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).
125 See 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(3).
126 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) (§ 1636.4(b)) prohibits a
covered entity from requiring a qualified employee
with a PWFA limitation to accept an
accommodation other than any reasonable
accommodation arrived at through the interactive
process.

PO 00000

Frm 00113

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29207

Example #52/Interactive Process: Launa is
a customer service representative. She is 6
weeks pregnant. Some mornings she has
morning sickness. She has found that eating
small amounts during the morning helps to
control it. Launa uses the company’s internal
message system to tell her supervisor that she
is pregnant and either needs to take breaks
to eat or needs to eat in her cubicle, and that
she may need a break if she is feeling
nauseous. Her supervisor agrees.
109. In some instances, for example to
determine an appropriate reasonable
accommodation, the employer and employee
may engage further in the interactive process.
The process is not composed of rigid steps
but is an opportunity for the covered entity
and employee to participate in a dialogue to
quickly identify a reasonable accommodation
that enables the employee to address their
limitation through a reasonable
accommodation that does not pose an undue
hardship. The interactive process also may
provide an opportunity for the covered entity
and the employee to discuss how different
accommodations will provide the employee
with equal employment opportunity and
what accommodation the employee
prefers.127
110. While the interactive process is an
informal exchange of information, there are
still certain rules that apply. The ADA
restrictions on when employers are permitted
to ask disability-related questions and require
medical examinations apply to all such
inquiries or examinations, whether
employers make them of people with or
without disabilities, including questions that
an employer asks during the interactive
process under the PWFA.128 For example, an
employer who requires an employee who
requests an accommodation due to a
pregnancy-related limitation to fill out a form
identifying their physical and mental
impairments would have difficulty
demonstrating that this disability-related
inquiry is job-related and consistent with
business necessity, as required by the
ADA.129 Further, if a covered entity has
sufficient information from the employee to
determine whether they have a PWFA
limitation and need an adjustment or change
at work due to the limitation, requiring the
127 During the interactive process, especially if it
is lengthened due to, for example, equipment being
ordered or the employee waiting for information
from or an appointment with a health care provider,
the employer should determine how to address the
employee’s needs while the interactive process is
ongoing. See, e.g., Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 12, at n.89
(discussing a situation when the employee is
waiting for reassignment). The Commission has
discussed a similar situation with regard to
postponing an employee’s evaluation pending the
employee receiving a requested reasonable
accommodation. EEOC, Technical Assistance on
Applying Performance and Conduct Standards to
Employees with Disabilities, Examples 8 & 11 (2008)
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/applyingperformance-and-conduct-standards-employeesdisabilities. See also supra in the Interpretive
Guidance in section 1636.3(h) under Interim
Reasonable Accommodations.
128 See 42 U.S.C. 12112(d); 29 CFR 1630.13,
1630.14.
129 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(4)(A); 29 CFR 1630.14(c).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

29208

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

employee to provide additional information
could be a violation of the PWFA’s antiretaliation provision (42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f))
(§ 1636.5(f)) or the PWFA’s prohibition on
taking adverse action in response to a request
for reasonable accommodation (42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5)) (§ 1636.4(e)). If an employer
decides to seek supporting documentation in
response to a request for a PWFA reasonable
accommodation, the restrictions limiting
supporting documentation set forth in
§ 1636.3(l) apply. Finally, any medical
information obtained during the interactive
process under the PWFA must be maintained
on separate forms and in separate medical
files and be treated as a confidential medical
record, in accordance with the ADA’s rules
on the confidentiality of medical
information, as explained in section
1636.7(a)(1) of this appendix under
Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries
and Medical Examinations and Protection of
Medical Information. Of particular relevance
to the PWFA, the fact that an employee is
pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has
a medical condition related to pregnancy or
childbirth is medical information. Similarly,
disclosing that an employee is receiving or
has requested an accommodation under the
PWFA or has limitations for which they
requested or are receiving a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, usually
amounts to a disclosure that the employee is
pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has
a related medical condition.
Recommendations for an Interactive Process
111. Appropriate reasonable
accommodations are best determined through
a flexible interactive process that includes
both the employer and the employee with the
known limitation. Employers and employees
may use some of the steps noted in paragraph
112 of this section, if warranted, to address
requests for reasonable accommodations
under the PWFA, but the Commission
emphasizes that, as under the ADA, a
covered entity and an employee do not have
to complete all or even some of these steps.
The Commission expects that typically a
simple conversation will be sufficient for
employers to obtain all the information
needed to determine the appropriate
reasonable accommodation. As with the
ADA, a covered entity should respond
expeditiously to a request for reasonable
accommodation and act promptly to provide
the reasonable accommodation.130
112. If an employer has not obtained
enough information to determine the
appropriate reasonable accommodation
through the initial request or a simple
conversation or email exchange, the flexible
interactive process may continue. For
example, when an employee with a known
limitation has requested a reasonable
accommodation regarding the performance of
the essential functions of the job, the covered
entity, using a problem-solving approach,
may, as needed:
130 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 10.
Following the steps laid out for the interactive
process is not a defense to liability if the employer
fails to provide a reasonable accommodation that it
could have provided absent undue hardship.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

a. Analyze the particular job involved and
determine its purpose and essential
functions;
b. Consult with the employee with a
known limitation to ascertain what kind of
accommodation is necessary given the
known limitation;
c. In consultation with the employee with
the known limitation, identify potential
accommodations and assess the effectiveness
each would have in enabling the employee to
perform the essential functions of the
position. If the employee’s limitation means
that they are temporarily unable to perform
one or more essential functions of the
position, the parties also must consider
whether suspending the performance of one
or more essential functions may be a part of
the reasonable accommodation if the known
limitation is temporary and the employee
could perform the essential function(s) in the
near future; and
d. Consider the preference of the employee
to be accommodated and select and
implement the accommodation that is most
appropriate for both the employee and the
covered entity.131
113. Steps (b) to (d) outlined in paragraph
112 of this section can be adapted and
applied to requests for reasonable
accommodations related to the application
process and to benefits and privileges of
employment. In those situations, in step (c),
the consideration should be how to enable
the applicant with a known limitation to be
considered for the position in question or
how to provide an employee with a known
limitation with the ability to enjoy equal
benefits and privileges of employment.
114. In some instances, neither the
employee requesting the accommodation nor
the covered entity may be able to readily
identify an appropriate accommodation. For
example, an applicant needing an
accommodation may not know enough about
the equipment used by the covered entity or
the exact nature of the work site to suggest
an appropriate accommodation. Likewise, the
covered entity may not know enough about
an employee’s known limitation and its effect
on the performance of the job to suggest an
appropriate accommodation. In these
situations, the steps in paragraph 112 of this
section may be helpful as part of the
employer’s reasonable effort to identify the
appropriate reasonable accommodation. In
addition, parties may consult outside
resources such as State or local entities, nonprofit organizations, or the Job
Accommodation Network (JAN) for ideas
regarding potential reasonable
accommodations.132
Engaging in the Interactive Process
115. A covered entity’s failure to engage in
the interactive process, in and of itself, is not
131 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9.
132 See JAN, supra note 107. See also U.S. Dep’t
of Lab., Occupational Safety & Health Admin.,
Ergonomics–Solutions to Control Hazards, https://
www.osha.gov/ergonomics/control-hazards (last
visited Apr. 3, 2024); U.S. Dep’t of Health & Hum.
Servs., Ctrs. for Disease Control & Prevention, Nat’l
Inst. for Occupational Safety & Health,
Reproductive Health and The Workplace, https://
www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/repro/ (last reviewed
May 1, 2023).

PO 00000

Frm 00114

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

a violation of the PWFA, just as it is not a
violation of the ADA. However, a covered
entity’s failure to initiate or participate in the
interactive process with the employee after
receiving a request for reasonable
accommodation could result in liability if the
employee does not receive a reasonable
accommodation even though one is available
that would not have posed an undue
hardship.133 Relatedly, an employee’s
unilateral withdrawal from or refusal to
participate in the interactive process can
constitute sufficient grounds for failing to
provide the reasonable accommodation.134
116. In situations where employers are
permitted to seek supporting documentation,
because employees may experience difficulty
obtaining appointments with health care
providers, especially early in pregnancy, the
covered entity should be aware that it may
take time for the employee to find a health
care provider and provide documentation.
Delay caused by the difficulty an employee
faces in obtaining information from a health
care provider in these circumstances should
not be considered a withdrawal from or
refusal to participate in the interactive
process. If there is such a delay, an employer
should consider providing an interim
reasonable accommodation.
117. As set out in Example #53 of this
appendix, if an employee requests an
accommodation but then is unable to engage
in the interactive process because of an
emergency, an employer should not penalize
the employee but rather should wait and
restart the interactive process once the
employee returns.
Example #53/Interruption of Interactive
Process: Beryl is a quality control inspector
at a labware manufacturing plant. She is in
the early stage of pregnancy, and Beryl’s
employer does not know that she is pregnant.
In the middle of her shift, Beryl suddenly
experiences cramping and bleeding. She tells
her supervisor that she thinks she is having
a miscarriage and needs to leave. The next
afternoon, Beryl’s partner calls the supervisor
and explains that Beryl will be resting at
home for the next 24 hours. Following time
at home, Beryl returns to the workplace and
follows up with her supervisor regarding her
emergency departure.
The bleeding and cramping Beryl
experienced is a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions, and Beryl identified an
adjustment or change needed at work (leave).
Thus, Beryl made a request for a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, and it
serves to start the PWFA interactive process.
The employer received Beryl’s request, but
the interactive process was interrupted by the
emergency situation that required immediate
action. The interactive process resumed
when Beryl’s partner spoke with the
supervisor and provided further information
regarding Beryl’s condition. When Beryl
spoke with her supervisor upon her return,
she reengaged in the interactive process.
Through this continued conversation, the
133 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 6.
134 See id.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
employer was able to gather sufficient
information to determine that Beryl had a
limitation under the PWFA and was entitled
to a reasonable accommodation. The
employer must grant Beryl leave for the time
she took off because of her miscarriage unless
it can establish that doing so would be an
undue hardship. Moreover, if the employer is
one that automatically assigns points or
penalizes employees for unexcused absences,
Beryl should not be penalized for using the
leave because she was entitled to the
accommodation of leave.135

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(l) Limits on Supporting
Documentation
118. A covered entity is not required to
seek supporting documentation from an
employee who requests an accommodation
under the PWFA. If a covered entity decides
to seek supporting documentation, the
covered entity is permitted to do so only
when reasonable under the circumstances to
determine whether the employee has a
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions (a
limitation) and needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation. When
seeking documentation is reasonable, the
employer is limited to seeking
documentation that itself is reasonable.
119. The restrictions on a covered entity
seeking supporting documentation are
enforceable through different parts of the
PWFA. As set out in § 1636.4(a)(3), as part of
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), a covered entity may
not fail to provide a reasonable
accommodation based on the employee’s
failure to provide supporting documentation
if the covered entity’s request for supporting
documentation violates the standards set out
in § 1636.3(l). Moreover, as discussed in
section 1636.5(f) of this appendix under
Possible Violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)) Based on Seeking Supporting
Documentation During the Reasonable
Accommodation Process and Disclosure of
Medical Information, a covered entity may
violate the PWFA’s retaliation provisions by
seeking documentation or information in
circumstances beyond those that are
135 There also may be other types of situations
where the employer is on notice of the need for
accommodation but then the interactive process is
interrupted. See, e.g., King v. Steward Trumbull
Mem’l Hosp., Inc., 30 F.4th 551, 568 (6th Cir. 2022)
(‘‘Anti-discrimination laws sometimes require
employers to accommodate unexpected
circumstances. Sudden illnesses and episodic flareups are, by nature, difficult to plan for and can be
quite disruptive to those who fall ill and those
around them. But that does not mean that
accommodating a sudden flare-up will cause undue
hardship merely because handling these situations
requires more flexibility.’’)
Some workplace attendance policies explicitly
provide for unexpected absences by, for example,
not penalizing workers who experience an
emergency health situation. See Enforcement
Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation, supra
note 12, at text accompanying n.74. Providing this
type of leave to some workers but not to workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions could be a violation of Title VII.
Finally, if the worker does not qualify for coverage
under the PWFA, there may be other laws, like the
ADA or the FMLA, that would apply.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

permitted under § 1636.3(l). This is the case
whether or not the employee provides the
documentation or information sought by the
employer and whether or not the employer
grants the accommodation.
120. In addition to the PWFA regulation,
covered entities are reminded that the ADA’s
limitations on disability-related inquiries and
medical exams apply to all ADA-covered
employers.136 These ADA limitations protect
all of the covered entity’s employees whether
they have disabilities or not and whether
they are seeking an ADA reasonable
accommodation or not. Thus, employers
responding to reasonable accommodation
requests under the PWFA should be mindful
of the ADA’s limitations on the employer’s
ability to make disability-related inquiries or
require medical exams in response to these
requests.137 For example, separate from
requirements imposed by the PWFA and
§ 1636.3(l), a covered entity may not ask an
employee who requests an accommodation
under the PWFA if the employee has asked
for other reasonable accommodations in the
past or whether the employee has preexisting
conditions, because these questions are
disability-related inquiries, i.e., questions
that are likely to elicit disability-related
information, and they are not job-related and
consistent with business necessity in these
circumstances. Further, an employer may not
require that an employee seeking an
accommodation under the PWFA complete
specific forms that ask for information
regarding ‘‘impairments’’ or ‘‘major life
activities.’’ These are disability-related
inquiries and, because they are not jobrelated and consistent with business
necessity in these circumstances, they would
violate the ADA.
121. The Commission notes that pregnant
employees may experience limitations and,
therefore, require accommodations, before
they have had any pregnancy-related medical
appointments. Pregnant employees also may
experience difficulty obtaining an immediate
appointment with a health care provider
early in a pregnancy or finding a health care
provider at all. The Commission encourages
employers who choose to seek supporting
documentation, when that is permitted under
§ 1636.3(l), to consider the best practice of
granting interim reasonable accommodations
if an employee indicates that they have tried
to obtain documentation and it will be
provided at a later date.

1636.3(l)(1) Seeking Supporting
Documentation Only When Reasonable
Under the Circumstances
122. The Commission expects that most
PWFA interactive processes will consist of
simple exchanges of information between
employees and employers, such as brief
conversations or emails, and that many of
136 The PWFA and title I of the ADA apply to the
same entities. Therefore, all entities covered by title
I of the ADA also are covered by the PWFA.
137 For further discussion of this topic, see infra
section 1636.7(a)(1) of this appendix under
Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries and
Medical Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information.

PO 00000

Frm 00115

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29209

these will be concluded very shortly after the
employee with a known limitation requests
a reasonable accommodation, without any
requests for further information. Once an
employer has determined an appropriate
reasonable accommodation, such as through
these types of simple communications, no
further interactive process is necessary.
123. The PWFA does not require
employers to seek supporting documentation
from employees requesting accommodations.
Under the PWFA, a covered entity may seek
supporting documentation only if it is
reasonable under the circumstances for the
covered entity to determine whether the
employee has a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions (a limitation) and needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation.
124. Under § 1636.3(l), situations when it
would be reasonable under the circumstances
for a covered entity to seek supporting
documentation include, for example, if a
pregnant employee asks for the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s) that
involves climbing ladders due to dizziness
and the danger of falling, then the employer
may, but is not required to, seek reasonable
documentation, which is the minimum that
is sufficient to confirm the physical or mental
condition—i.e., dizziness and increased risk
related to falling; confirm that the physical or
mental condition is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (together ‘‘a
limitation’’); and describe the adjustment or
change at work needed due to the
limitation—i.e., how high the employee may
climb, the types of actions the employee
should avoid, and how long the modification
will be needed. As another example, if an
employee requests an accommodation for a
known limitation but has only a vague idea
of what type of accommodation would be
effective and the employer also does not
know of a potential accommodation, it would
be reasonable under the circumstances for
the employer to seek supporting
documentation describing the adjustment or
change at work needed due to the limitation
to help identify the needed accommodation.
The employer also may consult resources
such as JAN.138
125. Section 1636.3(l) provides five
examples of when it would not be reasonable
under the circumstances for the employer to
seek supporting documentation.
1636.3(l)(1)(i)—Obvious
126. Under the PWFA, it is not reasonable
under the circumstances for an employer to
seek supporting documentation when the
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of the pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions (the
limitation) and the adjustment or change at
work that is needed due to the limitation are
obvious.
127. In practice, the Commission expects
this example will usually apply when the
138 See JAN, supra note 107.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29210

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

employee is obviously pregnant.139 Whether
someone is ‘‘obviously’’ pregnant can depend
on a number of factors, and not everyone
who is pregnant looks the same, but there is
a large subset of pregnant workers who most
individuals would agree are ‘‘obviously’’
pregnant, i.e., the pregnancy is showing and
onlookers easily notice by looking. To limit
problems that can arise in some instances
when employers attempt to determine if
someone is pregnant by looking at them, the
regulation requires the employee to confirm
the limitation and the adjustment or change
at work needed due to the limitation through
self-confirmation as defined in § 1636.3(l)(4).
This may happen in the same conversation
where the employee requests an
accommodation.
128. Thus, for example, when an obviously
pregnant employee confirms they are
pregnant and asks for a different size uniform
or related safety gear, the limitation and the
adjustment or change at work needed due to
the limitation are obvious, and the employer
may not seek supporting documentation. In
situations where some information is obvious
and other information is not, the employer
may seek supporting documentation relevant
only to the non-obvious issue. Thus, if an
obviously pregnant employee requests the
reasonable accommodation of leave related to
childbirth and recovery and confirms that
they are pregnant, it may be reasonable under
the circumstances for the employer to seek
supporting documentation about the length
of leave for recovery, but it would not be
reasonable to seek supporting documentation
regarding the limitation. Of course, the
employer does not have to seek supporting
documentation and can simply engage the
employee in a discussion about how much
leave the employee will need and when they
will need it.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.3(l)(1)(ii)—Known
129. The second example of when it would
not be reasonable to seek supporting
documentation is when the employer already
has sufficient information to determine that
the employee has a PWFA limitation and the
adjustment or change at work needed due to
the limitation. For example, if an employee
already provided documentation stating that
because of their recent cesarean section they
should not lift over 20 pounds for 2 months,
the employer may not seek further
supporting documentation during those 2
months because the employer already has
sufficient information.140
139 ‘‘Obvious’’ means that the condition is
apparent without being mentioned. In terms of
pregnancy itself, this may depend on physical
appearance, i.e., whether the pregnancy is
‘‘showing.’’ This is a concept that the Commission
has used previously regarding pregnancy
discrimination. Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 24, at
(I)(A)(1)(a) (discussing the ‘‘obviousness’’ of
pregnancy and a discrimination claim).
140 This example does not mean that when it is
otherwise reasonable in the circumstances to seek
supporting documentation, an employer is
prohibited from doing so because the employee has
simply stated that they have a limitation and need
an adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation. However, the employer also is not
required to seek documentation and can accept the
employee’s statement.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

130. This principle also applies to episodic
conditions. If an employer already has
sufficient information to determine that the
employee has a PWFA limitation that is
episodic (e.g., migraines that are related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions),
and the adjustment or change at work needed
periodically due to the limitation (breaks or
time off), the employer cannot seek
additional or new supporting documentation
every time the condition arises.
1636.3(l)(1)(iii)—Predictable Assessments
131. The third example of when it is not
reasonable under the circumstances for an
employer to seek supporting documentation
is based on the common types of pregnancy
modifications sought under the PWFA.
Specifically, it is not reasonable under the
circumstances for an employer to seek
supporting documentation when an
employee, at any time during their
pregnancy, seeks one of the following
modifications, due to their pregnancy: (1)
carrying or keeping water near for drinking,
as needed; (2) taking additional restroom
breaks, as needed; (3) sitting, for those whose
work requires standing, and standing, for
those whose work requires sitting, as needed;
and (4) taking breaks to eat and drink, as
needed. In these situations, an employee
must provide self-confirmation as defined in
§ 1636.3(l)(4). Example #10 of this appendix
shows how this can be part of the request for
an accommodation. It is not reasonable to
seek supporting documentation when an
employee is pregnant, seeks one of the four
listed modifications, and provides selfconfirmation as defined in paragraph (l)(4)
because these are a small set of commonly
sought modifications that are widely known
to be needed during an uncomplicated
pregnancy.
1636.3(l)(1)(iv)—Lactation
132. The fourth example of when it is not
reasonable under the circumstances to seek
supporting documentation concerns lactation
and pumping at work or nursing during work
hours. Specifically, it is not reasonable under
the circumstances to seek supporting
documentation when the reasonable
accommodation is related to a time and/or
place to pump or any other modification
related to pumping at work,141 and the
employee has provided a self-confirmation as
set out in § 1636.3(l)(4). Likewise, it is not
reasonable under the circumstances to seek
supporting documentation when the
reasonable accommodation is related to time
to nurse during work hours when the regular
location of the employee’s workplace makes
nursing during work hours a possibility
because the child is in close proximity and
the employee has provided self-confirmation
as set out in paragraph (l)(4).142
141 See supra note 102 for discussion of the PUMP
Act and the types of accommodations that may be
requested with regard to pumping.
142 ‘‘Nursing during work hours’’ could include,
for example, when an employee who always
teleworks from home and has their child at home
takes a break to nurse the child, or when an
employee takes a break to travel to a nearby daycare
center to nurse.

PO 00000

Frm 00116

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

133. It is not reasonable to seek supporting
documentation regarding pumping or nursing
at work because lactation beginning around
or shortly after birth is an obvious fact.
Additionally, and pragmatically, health care
providers may not be able to provide
supporting documentation about the details
of how a specific employee is managing
nursing or pumping, as this is not something
necessarily discussed with a health care
provider. This example does not, however,
apply to all reasonable accommodations
related to lactation; thus, this example would
not apply if a lactating employee requested
full-time remote work due to a condition that
makes pumping difficult.
1636.3(l)(1)(v)—Employer’s Own Policies or
Practices
134. The fifth example of when it would
not be reasonable under the circumstances
for a covered entity to seek supporting
documentation relates to an employer’s own
policies or practices. If the requested
accommodation is one that is available to
employees without known limitations
pursuant to the covered entity’s policies or
practices without submitting supporting
documentation, then it is not reasonable for
the employer to seek supporting
documentation from an employee seeking a
similar accommodation under the PWFA. For
example, if an employer has a policy or
practice of requiring supporting
documentation only for the use of leave for
3 or more consecutive days, it would not be
reasonable to ask someone who is using the
same type of leave due to a known limitation
under the PWFA to submit supporting
documentation when they request leave for 2
or fewer days.143
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation
135. Under the PWFA, reasonable
accommodations are available for physical or
mental conditions related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. When it is
reasonable under the circumstances for the
covered entity to seek supporting
documentation, the covered entity is limited
to seeking documentation that is itself
reasonable. When it is reasonable under the
circumstances for the covered entity to seek
supporting documentation, the covered
entity may require that the supporting
documentation come from a health care
provider.
136. Confirming the physical or mental
condition requires only a simple statement
that the physical or mental condition meets
the first part of the definition of ‘‘limitation’’
at § 1636.3(a)(2), (i.e., the physical or mental
condition is: an impediment or problem,
including ones that are modest, minor, or
episodic; a need or a problem related to
maintaining the health of the employee or the
pregnancy, or that the employee is seeking
143 Conversely, if regular employer policies or
practices would require documentation when the
PWFA would not, or would require more
documentation than the PWFA would allow in a
situation where the employee is requesting an
accommodation under the PWFA, the PWFA’s
restrictions on supporting documentation would
apply.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
health care related to the pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical condition
itself).144 The physical or mental condition
can be a PWFA limitation whether or not
such condition is an impairment or a
disability under the ADA.145 Some examples
of physical or mental conditions that could
be limitations are that the employee: has a
back injury; has swollen ankles; is
experiencing vomiting; has a lifting
restriction; is experiencing fatigue; should
not be exposed to a certain chemical; should
avoid working in the heat; needs to avoid
certain physical tasks such as walking,
running, or physical confrontation because of
increased risk; needs to attend a health care
appointment; or needs to recover from a
health care procedure. Because the physical
or mental condition can be something like
fatigue or vomiting, there is no need for the
statement to contain a medical diagnosis.
Thus, documentation is sufficient under
§ 1636.3(l)(2) even if it does not contain a
medical diagnosis, as long as it has a simple
statement of the physical or mental
condition.
137. The supporting documentation should
confirm that the physical or mental condition
is related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The supporting documentation
need not state that the pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions are the sole, the
original, or a substantial cause of the physical
or mental condition at issue because the
statute only requires that the physical or
mental condition be ‘‘related to, affected by,
or arising out of’’ pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.146 If relevant, the
documentation should include confirmation
that the ‘‘related medical condition’’ is
related to pregnancy or childbirth.
138. The employer also may seek
reasonable documentation to describe the
adjustment or change at work that is needed
due to the limitation and an estimate of the
expected duration of the need for the
adjustment or change. This may be, for
example: no heavy lifting for approximately
4 months; cannot stand for more than 30
minutes at a time until the end of the
pregnancy; the maximum amount of weight
involved in the lifting restriction and the
approximate length of the restriction; the
approximate number of and length of breaks;
the kind of support or equipment needed and
for approximately how long; a change in the
type of protective equipment or ventilation
needed and for approximately how long it
will be needed; the need to limit movement
and be allowed to lie down when necessary
and for approximately how long the
employee will need to limit movement; a
change in work location and the approximate
length of time of the change; a period of leave
expected to be needed for recovery or to
attend health care appointments; or the
essential function(s) that should be
temporarily suspended and for how long.
139. Where the supporting documentation
meets the standards described in this section,
144 Section 1636.3(a)(2).
145 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); see 29 CFR 1630.3(h).
146 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); see supra in section
1636.3(a)(2) of this appendix under Related to,
Affected by, or Arising Out of.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

it is sufficient to determine whether the
employee has a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions (a limitation) and needs an
adjustment or change at work due to the
limitation. Accordingly, a covered entity that
has received sufficient documentation but
fails to provide an accommodation based on
the failure to provide sufficient
documentation, or continues to seek
additional documentation or information,
risks liability under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
(§ 1636.4(a)(3)) and/or 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)).
140. Examples Regarding
Documentation: 147
Example #54/Reasonable Documentation:
Amelia recently returns to work after giving
birth and recovery from childbirth. Amelia
requests that she not be required to lift more
than 30 pounds due to a back injury arising
out of her pregnancy. Amelia’s employer can
use the interactive process to identify
Amelia’s limitation and what
accommodation will address her limitation.
Amelia’s employer may, but is not required
to, seek supporting documentation; in this
situation, the employer decides to seek
supporting documentation from Amelia. At
Amelia’s request, her obstetrician emails the
human resources department, explaining that
Amelia’s recent pregnancy has caused a back
injury and that she should avoid lifting more
than 30 pounds for approximately the next 3
months. This is sufficient documentation to
confirm that Amelia has a limitation—a
physical or mental condition (a back injury,
which is an impediment or problem) related
to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions—
and to describe an adjustment or change at
work that is needed due to the limitation
(avoid lifting more than 30 pounds for
approximately the next three months).
Because this is sufficient documentation, the
covered entity failing to provide Amelia an
accommodation based on a lack of
documentation may violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)), and the covered
entity trying to obtain additional
documentation or information related to
Amelia’s request for a reasonable
accommodation may violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).
Example #55 Reasonable Documentation:
Rachna is 6 months pregnant and has just
learned that she has preeclampsia. She
requires limited activity and bed rest for the
remainder of her pregnancy to limit the risks
to her health and the health of her pregnancy.
Rachna’s employer can use the interactive
process to identify Rachna’s limitation and
what accommodation will address her
limitation. Rachna’s employer may, but is not
required to, seek supporting documentation;
in this situation, the employer decides to
seek supporting documentation from Rachna.
Rachna provides her employer with a note
from her midwife saying that, because of
risks related to her health and the health of
147 The conditions described in these examples
also may be disabilities under the ADA and
therefore may entitle the employee to an
accommodation under the ADA, regardless of
whether they are entitled to one under the PWFA.

PO 00000

Frm 00117

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29211

her pregnancy, Rachna needs to limit
activities that involve sitting or standing,
needs bed rest as much as possible, and
should not commute to work for the
remaining 3 months of her pregnancy. This
is sufficient documentation to confirm that
Rachna has a limitation—a physical or
mental condition (maintaining the health of
the employee or the employee’s pregnancy)
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions—and to describe the change at
work that is needed (limiting activities
involving sitting and standing, lying down as
much as possible, and not commuting for the
remainder of her pregnancy). Because this is
sufficient documentation, the covered entity
failing to provide Rachna an accommodation
based on a lack of documentation may violate
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)), and
the covered entity trying to obtain additional
documentation or information related to her
request for a reasonable accommodation may
violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).
141. Because a covered entity is limited to
the minimum supporting documentation
necessary, a covered entity may not require
that a pregnancy be confirmed through a
specific test or method. Moreover, such a
requirement could implicate the ADA’s
provisions that medical examinations only
are permitted when they are job-related and
consistent with business necessity.148
142. Additionally, covered entities may not
require that supporting documentation be
submitted on a specific form, but only that
documentation meets the requirements of
§ 1636.3(l)(2). If covered entities offer an
optional form for employees to use in
submitting supporting documentation, the
covered entities may wish to review
preexisting forms they have for reasonable
accommodations or leave to ensure their
compliance with the PWFA. For example, the
PWFA does not require that an employee
have a ‘‘serious health condition’’ and the
statute does not use the term ‘‘major life
activity,’’ so employer forms or other
employer communications seeking
supporting documentation for PWFA-related
reasonable accommodations should not use
this terminology.
1636.3(l)(3) Limitations on a Covered Entity
Seeking Supporting Documentation From a
Health Care Provider
143. When it is reasonable under the
circumstances for the covered entity to seek
supporting documentation, a covered entity
may require that the supporting
documentation comes from a health care
provider. The regulation contains a nonexhaustive list of possible health care
providers that is based on the non-exhaustive
list provided in the Commission’s ADA
policy guidance.149
144. The covered entity may not require
that the health care provider who is
submitting documentation be the provider
treating the employee for the condition at
issue, as long as the health care provider is
able to confirm the physical or mental
148 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(4)(A).
149 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 6.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29212

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

condition; confirm that the physical or
mental condition is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions (together ‘‘a
limitation’’); and describe the adjustment or
change at work that is needed due to the
limitation. The covered entity may not
require that an employee be examined by a
health care provider of the covered entity’s
choosing.
1636.3(l)(4) Self-Confirmation of Pregnancy
or Lactation
145. For the purposes of supporting
documentation under the PWFA, selfconfirmation is a simple statement in which
the employee confirms, as set forth in
§ 1636.3(l)(1)(i), (iii) and (iv), the limitation
and adjustment or change that is needed at
work due to the limitation. The selfconfirmation statement can be made in any
manner and can be made as part of the
request for reasonable accommodation under
§ 1636.3(h)(2). For example, self-confirmation
may be spoken, it may be recorded or live,
or it may be written on paper or
electronically, such as in an email or text.
Self-confirmation does not need to use any
particular words or format, does not need to
be written on a form, does not need to be a
particular length, does not need to be
notarized or otherwise verified, and does not
need to be accompanied by documentary or
physical evidence. In many instances, the
self-confirmation will be part of what the
employee communicates when they start the
reasonable accommodation process. Example
#10 of this appendix, where an employee
tells a manager of her need for more frequent
bathroom breaks and explains that the breaks
are needed because the employee is pregnant,
is an example of self-confirmation of
pregnancy.
Interaction Between the PWFA and the ADA
146. Employers covered by the PWFA also
are covered by the ADA.150 The ADA’s
statutory text includes express restrictions on
when a covered entity may require medical
exams and make disability-related
inquiries.151 These restrictions apply to all
the interactions between covered entities and
their employees, regardless of whether an
individual has a disability. Thus, for
example, if an employee is requesting a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA,
the ADA’s restrictions apply and prevent an
employer from seeking the employee’s entire
medical record or asking the employee if they
have received accommodations in the past
because these inquiries are likely to elicit
information about a disability and are not
job-related and consistent with business
necessity in these circumstances.
Independent of these ADA restrictions,
§ 1636.3(l)(2) also prohibits seeking this type
of documentation under the PWFA because
it goes beyond the definition of reasonable
documentation. Finally, depending on the
facts, seeking such information could violate
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f).
147. The ADA provides for the
confidentiality of medical information,
150 42 U.S.C 12111(5) (ADA); 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)
(PWFA).
151 42 U.S.C. 12112(d), 12112(d)(4)(A).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

subject to limited disclosure rules.152 These
rules apply to medical information in the
employer’s possession, including information
obtained by an employer from disabilityrelated inquiries or medical exams, or
information obtained as part of the
reasonable accommodation process.153 That
an employee is pregnant, has recently been
pregnant, or has a medical condition related
to pregnancy or childbirth is medical
information. The ADA requires that
employers keep such information
confidential and only disclose it within the
confines of the ADA’s limited disclosure
rules. Similarly, disclosing that an employee
is receiving or has requested a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA usually
amounts to a disclosure that the employee is
pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has
a related medical condition and thus must be
treated as confidential medical information
as well. This is explained further in section
1636.7(a)(1) of this appendix under
Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries
and Medical Examinations and Protection of
Medical Information.
148. If there is a situation where an
employee requests an accommodation and
both the PWFA and the ADA could apply,
the employer should apply the provision that
it would be less demanding for the employee
to satisfy. For example, assume a pregnant
employee has diabetes that is exacerbated by
the pregnancy and needs breaks to eat or
152 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR
1630.14(b)(1), (c)(1), (d)(4); EEOC, Enforcement
Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries and
Medical Examinations of Employees Under the
ADA, at text accompanying nn.9–10 (2000)
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance on DisabilityRelated Inquiries], http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-disability-relatedinquiries-and-medical-examinations-employees
(‘‘The ADA requires employers to treat any medical
information obtained from a disability-related
inquiry or medical examination . . . as well as any
medical information voluntarily disclosed by an
employee, as a confidential medical record.
Employers may share such information only in
limited circumstances with supervisors, managers,
first aid and safety personnel, and government
officials investigating compliance with the ADA.’’);
EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment
Disability-Related Questions and Medical
Examinations, at text accompanying n.6 (1995)
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment
Disability-Related Questions], https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-preemployment-disability-relatedquestions-and-medical. https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-preemploymentdisability-related-questions-and-medical (‘‘Medical
information must be kept confidential.’’). In
addition, Federal agencies are covered by the
Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and
many Federal agencies maintain equal employment
opportunity records subject to a Privacy Act System
of Records Notice.
153 See Enforcement Guidance on DisabilityRelated Inquiries, supra note 152, at General
Principles (‘‘The ADA requires employers to treat
any medical information obtained from a disabilityrelated inquiry or medical examination (including
medical information from voluntary health or
wellness programs), as well as any medical
information voluntarily disclosed by an employee,
as a confidential medical record.’’) and text after
n.12 (‘‘[T]he ADA’s restrictions on inquiries and
examinations apply to all employees, not just those
with disabilities.’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00118

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

drink. Under the PWFA, the covered entity
cannot seek supporting documentation (as set
forth in § 1636.3(l)(1)(iii)) and this is the
provision that the employer should apply.
IV. 1636.4 Nondiscrimination With Regard
to Reasonable Accommodations Related to
Pregnancy
1636.4(a) Failing To Provide Reasonable
Accommodation
1. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
prohibits a covered entity from not making a
reasonable accommodation for a qualified
employee with a known limitation related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions unless the covered entity can
demonstrate that the accommodation would
impose an undue hardship on the operation
of its business. This provision of the PWFA
uses the same language as the ADA, and the
rule likewise uses the language from the
corresponding ADA regulation.154 Because
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) uses the same
operative language as the ADA, it should be
interpreted in a similar manner.
2. This section is violated when a covered
entity fails to make reasonable
accommodation to a qualified employee with
a known limitation, absent undue
hardship.155 However, a covered entity does
not violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) merely by
refusing to engage in the interactive process;
for a violation, there also must have been a
reasonable accommodation that the employer
could have provided absent undue hardship.
1636.4(a)(1) Unnecessary Delay in Providing
a Reasonable Accommodation
3. An unnecessary delay in providing a
reasonable accommodation to the known
limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions of a qualified
employee may result in a violation of the
PWFA if the delay constitutes a failure to
provide a reasonable accommodation. This
can be true even if the reasonable
accommodation is eventually provided,
when the delay was unnecessary.
Unnecessary delay that can be actionable
under this section can occur at any time
during the accommodation process
including, but not limited to, responding to
the initial request, during the interactive
process, or in implementing the
accommodation once the request is
approved. Delay by a third-party
administrator acting on behalf of the covered
entity is attributable to the covered entity.
154 See 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(A); 29 CFR
1630.9(a).
155 The regulation in § 1636.4, following the
language in the statute, uses the phrase ‘‘known
limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1),
(3)–(5). Given the definition in the statute of
‘‘known limitation’’ (42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4)), the
phrase ‘‘known limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’ in
§ 1636.4 and 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1 should be
understood to mean that the known limitations are
related to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions or that
‘‘known limitations’’ mean physical or mental
conditions related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

4. Section 1636.4(a)(1) sets out the factors
that are used when determining whether a
delay in the provision of a reasonable
accommodation violates the PWFA. Section
1636.4(a)(1) sets out the factors already
identified in the ADA guidance 156 and adds
three additional factors, described in
paragraphs 5, 6, and 7 of this section.
5. First, whether providing the
accommodation was simple or complex is a
factor to be considered. Under the PWFA,
there are certain modifications, set forth in
§ 1636.3(j)(4), that will virtually always be
found to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose an undue hardship: (1)
allowing a pregnant employee to carry or
keep water near and drink, as needed; (2)
allowing a pregnant employee to take
additional restroom breaks, as needed; (3)
allowing a pregnant employee whose work
requires standing to sit and whose work
requires sitting to stand, as needed; and (4)
allowing a pregnant employee to take breaks
to eat and drink, as needed. If there is delay
in providing these accommodations to a
qualified employee with a known limitation,
it will virtually always be found to be
unnecessary because of the presumption that
these modifications will be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship.
6. Second, whether the covered entity
offered the employee an interim reasonable
accommodation during the interactive
process is a factor to be considered. The offer
of an interim reasonable accommodation can
be made at any time following the request for
accommodation. The provision of an interim
accommodation will decrease the likelihood
that an unnecessary delay will be found.
Under this factor, the interim reasonable
accommodation should be one that enables
the employee to keep working as much as
possible; the provision of leave will not be
considered as a factor that can excuse delay,
unless the employee selects, or requests,
leave as an interim reasonable
accommodation.157
7. Third, the length of time for which the
employee will need the reasonable
accommodation is another factor to be
considered. Given that limitations related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions are
frequently temporary, an unnecessary delay
in providing an accommodation may mean
that the period necessitating the
accommodation could pass without action
simply because of the delay.
1636.4(a)(2) Refusing an Accommodation
8. An employee with a known limitation is
not required to accept a reasonable
accommodation. However, if the rejection of
the reasonable accommodation results in the
employee being unable to perform the
essential functions of the job, the employee
is not qualified. This provision mirrors the

language from a similar provision in the ADA
regulation,158 with the inclusion of
employees who are qualified under
§ 1636.3(f)(2).
1636.4(a)(3) Covered Entity Failing To
Provide a Reasonable Accommodation Due
to Lack of Supporting Documentation
9. A covered entity cannot defend the
failure to provide an accommodation based
on the lack of supporting documentation if:
the covered entity did not seek supporting
documentation; seeking supporting
documentation was not reasonable under the
circumstances as defined in § 1636.3(l)(1);
the covered entity sought documentation
beyond that which is reasonable as defined
in § 1636.3(l)(2); or the covered entity did not
provide the employee sufficient time to
obtain and provide the supporting
documentation sought.
1636.4(a)(4) Choosing Among Possible
Accommodations
10. The covered entity must provide an
effective accommodation, i.e., one that meets
the employee’s needs or limitations. If there
is more than one effective accommodation,
the employee’s preference should be given
primary consideration.159 However, the
employer providing the accommodation has
the ultimate discretion to choose among
effective reasonable accommodations.160 The
employer may choose, for example, the less
expensive accommodation, the
accommodation that is easier for it to
provide, or, generally, the accommodation
that imposes the least hardship.161 In the
situation where the employer is choosing
among effective reasonable accommodations
and does not provide the accommodation
that is the employee’s preferred
accommodation, the employer does not have
to show that it is an undue hardship to
provide the employee’s preferred
accommodation.
11. A covered entity’s ‘‘ultimate
discretion’’ in choosing a reasonable
accommodation is limited by certain other
considerations. First, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1
(§ 1636.4(a)(4)) requires that the
accommodation must provide the qualified
employee with a known limitation with
equal employment opportunity.162 By this,
the Commission means an opportunity to
attain the same level of performance,
experience the same level of benefits, or
otherwise enjoy the same terms, conditions,
and privileges of employment as are available
to the average similarly situated employee
without a known limitation, which includes
the individual who needs the
accommodation when they are without the
known limitation.163 This may be shown by
158 See 29 CFR 1630.9(d).
159 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9.
160 Id.
161 Id.

156 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable

Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 10 &
n.38. The Enforcement Guidance notes that these
are ‘‘relevant factors’’ but not that these are the only
factors.
157 The restriction on using leave as an interim
accommodation is based on 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4)
and 2000gg–2(f).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

162 See also Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 9,
Example B.
163 See 29 CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.9; 29
CFR part 1630, appendix, 1630.2(o) (explaining that
reassignment should be to a position with
equivalent pay, status, etc., if the individual is
qualified, and if the position is vacant within a

PO 00000

Frm 00119

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29213

evidence of the opportunities that would
have been available to the employee seeking
the accommodation had they not identified a
known limitation or sought an
accommodation, or other evidence that tends
to demonstrate that the accommodation
provided to the employee did not provide
equal employment opportunity. Depending
on the facts, selecting the accommodation
that does not provide equal opportunity
could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), 2000gg–
1(5), or 2000gg–2(f).164
12. Second, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
prohibits a covered entity from requiring a
qualified employee affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions to
accept an accommodation other than any
reasonable accommodation arrived at
through the interactive process.
13. Third, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4) prohibits
a covered entity from requiring a qualified
employee with a known limitation to take
leave, whether paid or unpaid, if there is a
reasonable accommodation that will allow
the employee to continue to work, absent
undue hardship.
14. Fourth, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) prohibits
a covered entity from taking adverse action
in terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment against a qualified employee on
account of the employee requesting or using
a reasonable accommodation to the known
limitations related to the pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions of
the employee.
15. Fifth, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) prohibits
retaliation and coercion by covered entities.
16. These limitations to the ‘‘ultimate
discretion’’ of a covered entity to choose
among effective accommodations are
described in the discussions of §§ 1636.4(b),
(d), and (e) and 1636.5(f).
17. Example Regarding Failing To Provide
Equal Employment Opportunity:
Example #56/Failing To Provide Equal
Employment Opportunity: Yasmin’s job
requires her to travel to meet with clients.
Because of her pregnancy, she is not able to
travel for 3 months. She asks that she be
allowed to conduct her client meetings via
reasonable amount of time); see also Enforcement
Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation, supra
note 12, at text following n.80 (‘‘However, if both
the employer and the employee voluntarily agree
that transfer is preferable to remaining in the
current position with some form of reasonable
accommodation, then the employer may transfer the
employee.’’); cf. EEOC, Compliance Manual on
Religious Discrimination, (12–IV)(A)(3) (2021)
[hereinafter Compliance Manual on Religious
Discrimination], https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/section-12-religious-discrimination
(stating that in the context of a religious
accommodation, an accommodation would not be
reasonable ‘‘if it requires the employee to accept a
reduction in pay rate or some other loss of a benefit
or privilege of employment and there is an
alternative accommodation that does not do so’’);
EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Unlawful Disparate
Treatment of Workers With Caregiving
Responsibilities, Example 5 (2007), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-unlawful-disparate-treatment-workerscaregiving-responsibilities (explaining how a
worker can be a comparator for themselves).
164 Depending on the facts, this could be a
violation of Title VII’s prohibition on sex
discrimination as well.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29214

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

video conferencing. Although this
accommodation would allow her to perform
her essential job functions and would not
impose an undue hardship, her employer
reassigns her to smaller, local accounts.
Being assigned only to these accounts is not
an effective accommodation because it limits
Yasmin’s opportunity to compete for
promotions and bonuses as she had in the
past. This could be a violation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1), because Yasmin is denied an
equal opportunity to compete for promotions;
thus, her employer has failed to provide her
a reasonable accommodation. The employer’s
actions also could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(5) and 2000gg–2(f), or Title VII’s
prohibition against pregnancy
discrimination.
1636.4(b) Requiring a Qualified Employee To
Accept an Accommodation
18. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
prohibits a covered entity from requiring a
qualified employee to accept an
accommodation other than any reasonable
accommodation arrived at through the
interactive process. Pursuant to this
provision in the PWFA and § 1636.4(b), a
covered entity cannot require a qualified
employee to accept an accommodation such
as light duty or a temporary transfer, or delay
of an examination that is part of the
application process, without engaging in the
interactive process, even if the covered
entity’s motivation is concern for the
employee’s health or pregnancy.
19. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
does not require that the employee have a
limitation, known or not; thus, a violation of
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) could occur if a
covered entity believes that a qualified
employee is pregnant and decides, without
engaging in the interactive process with the
employee, that the employee needs a
particular accommodation, and unilaterally
requires the employee to accept the
accommodation, even though the employee
has not requested it and can perform the
essential functions of the job without it. For
example, this provision could be violated if
an employment agency, without discussing
the situation with the candidate, decides that
a candidate recovering from a miscarriage
needs an accommodation in the form of not
being sent to certain jobs that the agency
views as too physical. Similarly, a violation
could result if an employer decides to excuse
a qualified pregnant employee from overtime
as an accommodation without the employee
seeking an accommodation and the employer
and the employee engaging in the interactive
process.165
20. Additionally, a violation could occur if
a covered entity receives a request for a
reasonable accommodation and unilaterally
imposes an accommodation that was not
requested by the qualified employee without
engaging in the interactive process.
21. Example Regarding Requiring an
Employee To Accept an Accommodation:
Example #57/Requiring an Employee To
Accept an Accommodation: Kia, a restaurant
165 These actions also could violate Title VII’s

prohibition of disparate treatment based on sex. See
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 24, at (I)(B)(1).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

server, is pregnant. She asks for additional
breaks during her shifts as her pregnancy
progresses because she feels tired, and her
feet are swelling. Her employer, without
engaging in the interactive process with Kia,
directs Kia to take host shifts for the
remainder of her pregnancy, because it
allows her to sit for long periods. The
employer has violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
(§ 1636.4(b)), because it required Kia to
accept an accommodation other than one
arrived at through the interactive process,
even if Kia’s earnings did not decrease and
her terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment were not harmed.
Moreover, if the host shift does not provide
Kia with equal terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment (e.g., Kia’s wages
decrease or Kia no longer can earn tips), the
covered entity also may have violated 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (requiring reasonable
accommodation absent undue hardship);
2000gg–1(5) (prohibiting adverse action in
terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment); and/or 2000gg–2(f)
(prohibiting retaliation) (§§ 1636.4(a) and (e)
and 1636.5(f)).
22. Finally, this provision also could be
violated if a covered entity has a rule that
requires all qualified pregnant employees to
stop a certain function—such as traveling—
automatically, without any evidence that the
particular employee is unable to perform that
function.
1636.4(c) Denying Opportunities to Qualified
Employees
23. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(3)
prohibits a covered entity from denying
employment opportunities to a qualified
employee with a known limitation if the
denial is based on the need of the covered
entity to make reasonable accommodations to
the known limitations related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions of the qualified
employee. Thus, an employee’s known
limitation and need for a reasonable
accommodation cannot be part of the covered
entity’s decision regarding hiring, discharge,
promotion, or other employment decisions,
unless the reasonable accommodation would
impose an undue hardship on the covered
entity.
24. This provision in the PWFA uses
language similar to that of the ADA, and
§ 1636.4(c) likewise uses language similar to
the corresponding ADA regulation.166
Section 1636.4(c) encompasses situations
where the covered entity’s decision is based
on the future possibility that a reasonable
accommodation will be needed, i.e., 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(3) prohibits a covered entity
from making a decision based on its belief
that an employee may need a reasonable
accommodation in the future regardless of
whether the employee has asked for one or
not. Thus, under § 1636.4(c), this prohibition
would include situations where a covered
entity refuses to hire a pregnant applicant
because the covered entity believes that the
applicant will need leave to recover from
childbirth, regardless of whether the covered
166 See 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(B); 29 CFR
1630.9(b).

PO 00000

Frm 00120

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

entity knows the exact amount of leave the
applicant will require, or whether the
applicant has mentioned the need for leave
as a reasonable accommodation to the
covered entity.
1636.4(d) Requiring a Qualified Employee To
Take Leave
25. A covered entity may not require a
qualified employee to take leave, whether
paid or unpaid, if another reasonable
accommodation can be provided to the
employee’s known limitations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions absent undue hardship.
26. This provision does not prohibit a
covered entity from offering leave as a
reasonable accommodation if leave is the
reasonable accommodation requested or
selected by the qualified employee, or if it is
the only reasonable accommodation that does
not cause an undue hardship. As provided in
§ 1636.3(i)(3), both paid leave (accrued,
short-term disability, or another employer
benefit) and unpaid leave are potential
reasonable accommodations under the
PWFA.
1636.4(e) Adverse Action on Account of
Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation
27. The PWFA contains overlapping
provisions that protect employees,
applicants, and former employees seeking or
using reasonable accommodations.
Importantly, nothing in the PWFA limits
which provision an employee may use to
protect their rights.
28. One of these provisions is 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5), which prohibits adverse action
in the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment against a qualified employee on
account of the employee requesting or using
a reasonable accommodation to the known
limitations related to the pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions of
the employee.
29. The protections provided by 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) are likely to have significant
overlap with 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), which
prohibits retaliation. However, the PWFA’s
anti-retaliation provisions apply to a broader
group of individuals and actions than 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) does.
30. ‘‘Terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment’’ is a term from Title VII, and
the Commission has interpreted it to
encompass a wide range of activities or
practices that occur in the workplace
including, but not limited to: discriminatory
work environment or atmosphere; duration of
work (such as the length of an employment
contract, hours of work, or attendance); work
rules; job assignments and duties; and job
advancement (such as training, support, and
performance evaluations).167 In addition, for
the purposes of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5),
‘‘terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment’’ can include hiring, discharge,
or compensation.
167 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1); Compliance Manual
on Terms, Conditions, and Privileges of
Employment, supra note 69, at 613.1(a) (stating that
the language is to be read in the broadest possible
terms and providing a list of examples).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
31. This provision prohibits a covered
entity from taking a harmful action against a
qualified employee. For example, this
provision prohibits a covered entity from
penalizing an employee for having requested
or used an accommodation that the covered
entity had granted previously.
32. Examples Regarding Adverse Action in
Terms, Conditions, or Privileges of
Employment:
Example #58/Adverse Action in Terms,
Conditions, or Privileges of Employment:
Nava took leave to recover from childbirth as
a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA, and, as a result, failed to meet the
sales quota for that quarter, which led to a
negative performance appraisal. The negative
appraisal could be a violation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) because Nava received it due to
the use of a reasonable accommodation. If an
employee receives the reasonable
accommodation of leave, a production
standard, such as a sales quota, may need to
be prorated to account for the reduced
amount of time the employee works.168
33. Also, an employer may violate this
provision if there is more than one
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship, and the
employer, after the interactive process,
chooses the accommodation that causes an
adverse action with respect to the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment,
despite the existence of an alternative
accommodation that would not do so.
Example #59/Adverse Action in Terms,
Conditions, or Privileges of Employment: Ivy
asks for additional bathroom breaks during
the workday because of pregnancy, including
during overtime shifts. After talking to Ivy,
Ivy’s supervisor decides Ivy should simply
not work overtime, because during the
overtime shift there are fewer employees and
the supervisor does not want to bother
figuring out coverage for Ivy’s bathroom
breaks, although it would not be an undue
hardship to do so. As a result, Ivy is not
assigned overtime and loses earnings. The
employer’s actions could violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) because Ivy suffered the adverse
action of not being assigned to overtime and
losing wages because she used a reasonable
accommodation.
Example #60/Adverse Action in Terms,
Conditions, or Privileges of Employment:
Leah asks for telework due to morning
sickness. Through the interactive process, it
is determined that either telework or a later
schedule combined with an hour rest break
in the afternoon would allow Leah to perform
the essential functions of her job without
imposing an undue hardship. Although Leah
prefers telework, the employer would rather
Leah be in the office. It would not be a
violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) to offer
Leah the schedule change/rest break, instead
of telework, as a reasonable accommodation.
34. The facts set out in Examples #58 and
#59 of this appendix also could violate 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) and 2000gg–2(f).
V. 1636.5 Remedies and Enforcement
1. In crafting the PWFA remedies and
enforcement section, Congress recognized the
168 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 12, at Question 19.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

advisability of using the existing mechanisms
for redress of other forms of employment
discrimination. The regulation at § 1636.5(a),
(c), (d), and (e) follows the language of the
statute.
1636.5(a) Remedies and Enforcement Under
Title VII
2. The enforcement mechanisms,
procedures, and remedies available to
employees and others covered by Title VII
apply to the PWFA.169 Thus, employees
covered by section 706 of Title VII may file
charges alleging violations of the PWFA with
the Commission, and the Commission will
investigate them using the same process as
set out in Title VII.170 Similarly, the
Commission will use the same rules to
determine the time limits for filing a charge;
if the State or locality in which the charge
has been filed has a law prohibiting sex
discrimination, pregnancy discrimination, or
specifically providing accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions, the deadline to file a charge will
be 300 days.171
1636.5(e) Remedies and Enforcement Under
Section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
3. The applicable procedures and available
remedies for employees covered by section
717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16, apply under the PWFA.
Employees covered by section 717 of Title
VII may file complaints with the relevant
Federal agency which will investigate them,
and the Commission will process appeals
using the same process as set out in Title VII
for Federal employees. Thus, the
Commission’s implementing regulations
found at 29 CFR part 1614 (Federal sector
equal employment opportunity) apply to the
PWFA as well.
Damages
4. As with other Federal employment
discrimination laws, the PWFA provides for
recovery of pecuniary and non-pecuniary
damages, including compensatory and
punitive damages. The statute’s adoption by
reference of section 1977A of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, also imports the limitations on the
recovery of compensatory damages and
punitive damages generally applicable in
employment discrimination cases, depending
on the size of the employer. Punitive
damages are not available in actions against
a government, government agency, or
political subdivision. This part lays out these
requirements involving damages in separate
paragraphs under § 1636.5(a) through (e).
169 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(a), (d), (e).
170 See 29 CFR part 1601.
171 See EEOC v. Dolgencorp, LLC, 899 F.3d 428,
433–34 (6th Cir. 2018) (applying the 300-day time
limit to a charge alleging failure to provide a
reasonable accommodation under the ADA filed in
Tennessee where the state statute prohibited
discrimination against individuals with disabilities
but did not provide for reasonable accommodations,
noting, ‘‘[t]he relevant question is whether the state
agency has the power to entertain the claimant’s
disability discrimination claim, not whether state
law recognizes the same theories of discrimination
as federal law’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00121

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29215

1636.5(f) Prohibition Against Retaliation
5. The anti-retaliation provisions of the
PWFA should be interpreted broadly, like
those of Title VII and the ADA, to effectuate
Congress’ broad remedial purpose in enacting
these laws.172 The protections of these
provisions extend beyond qualified
employees with known limitations and cover
activity that may not yet have occurred, such
as a circumstance in which a covered entity
threatens an employee with termination if
they file a charge or requires an employee to
sign an agreement that prohibits such
individual from filing a charge with the
Commission.173
1636.5(f)(1) Prohibition Against Retaliation
6. The types of conduct prohibited, the
standard for determining what constitutes
retaliatory conduct, and the individuals
protected under the PWFA are the same as
they are under Title VII.174 Accordingly, this
provision prohibits discrimination against
employees who engage in protected activity,
which includes ‘‘‘participating’ in an EEO
process or ‘opposing’ discrimination.’’ 175
Title VII’s anti-retaliation provision is broad
and protects an employee from conduct,
whether related to employment or not, that
a reasonable person would have found
‘‘materially adverse,’’ meaning that the action
‘‘well might have dissuaded a reasonable
worker from making or supporting a charge
of discrimination.’’ 176 Additionally, Title
VII’s anti-retaliation provision protects
employees, applicants, and former
employees.177 The same interpretations
apply to the PWFA’s anti-retaliation
provision.178
172 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation and
Related Issues, supra note 89, at (II)(A)(1)
(describing the broad protection of the participation
clause); id. at (II)(A)(2), (2)(a) (describing the broad
protection of the opposition clause).
173 See EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on NonWaivable Employee Rights under EEOC Enforced
Statutes, (II) (1997), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-non-waivableemployee-rights-under-eeoc-enforced-statutes
(‘‘[P]romises not to file a charge or participate in an
EEOC proceeding are null and void as a matter of
public policy. Agreements extracting such promises
from employees may also amount to separate and
discrete violations of the anti-retaliation provisions
of the civil rights statutes.’’).
174 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1) (using the same
language as 42 U.S.C. 2000e–3(a)).
175 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 89, at (II)(A); see also id. at (II)(A)(1), (2)
(describing protected activity under Title VII’s antiretaliation clause).
176 Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. White, 548
U.S. 53, 68 (2006) (internal citations and quotation
marks omitted).
177 See 42 U.S.C. 2000e–3(a). The statute at 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1) applies to an ‘‘employee’’
which 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) defines to include
applicants. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) relies
on the Title VII definition of employee, which
includes former employees, where relevant. See
also Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346
(1997) (finding former employees are protected
under Title VII’s anti-retaliation provision).
178 All retaliatory conduct under Title VII (and
the ADA), including retaliation that takes the form
of harassment, is evaluated under the legal standard
for retaliation. See Enforcement Guidance on
Retaliation, supra note 89, at (II)(B)(3).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29216

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

7. Section 1636.5(f) contains three other
provisions based on the statutory language
and established anti-retaliation concepts
under Title VII and the ADA.
8. First, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1) protects
‘‘any employee,’’ not only ‘‘a qualified
employee with a known limitation’’;
therefore, an employee, applicant, or former
employee need not establish that they have
a known limitation or are qualified (as those
terms are defined in the PWFA) to bring a
claim under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1).179
9. Second, a request for a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA constitutes
protected activity, and therefore retaliation
for such a request is prohibited.180
10. Third, an employee, applicant, or
former employee does not have to be actually
deterred from exercising or enjoying rights
under this section for the retaliation to be
actionable.181

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

1636.5(f)(2) Prohibition Against Coercion
11. The PWFA’s anti-coercion provision
uses the same language as the ADA’s
interference provision, with one minor
variation in the title of the section.182 The
scope of the PWFA anti-coercion provision is
broader than the anti-retaliation provision; it
reaches those instances ‘‘when conduct does
not meet the ‘materially adverse’ standard
required for retaliation.’’ 183 Following the
language of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(2) and
consistent with the ADA’s analogous
interference provision, § 1636.5(f)(2) protects
individuals, not qualified employees with a
known limitation under the PWFA. Thus, the
individual need not be an employee,
applicant, or former employee and need not
establish that they have a known limitation
or that they are qualified (as those terms are
defined in the PWFA) to bring a claim for
coercion under the PWFA.184
12. The purpose of this provision is to
ensure that employees are free to avail
themselves of the protections of the statute.
Thus, consistent with the ADA regulation for
the analogous provision, § 1636.5(f)(2)
includes ‘‘harass’’ in the list of prohibitions;
the inclusion is intended to characterize the
type of adverse treatment that may in some
circumstances violate the coercion
provision.185 Section 1636.5(f)(2) also states
179 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 89, at (II)(A)(3).
180 See id. at (II)(A)(2)(e) and Example 10.
181 See id. at (II)(B)(1), (2) (stating that the
retaliation ‘‘standard can be satisfied even if the
individual was not in fact deterred’’ and that ‘‘[i]f
the employer’s action would be reasonably likely to
deter protected activity, it can be challenged as
retaliation even if it falls short of its goal’’).
182 The ADA uses the phrase ‘‘Interference,
coercion, or intimidation’’ to preface the
prohibition against interference (42 U.S.C.
12203(b)), whereas the PWFA uses ‘‘Prohibition
against coercion’’ (42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(2)). The
language of the prohibitions is otherwise identical.
183 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 89, at (III).
184 See id.
185 See 29 CFR 1630.12(b); see also Enforcement
Guidance on Retaliation, supra note 89, at text
accompanying n.177 (stating, with regard to the
ADA, that ‘‘[t]he statute, regulations, and court
decisions have not separately defined the terms
‘coerce,’ ‘intimidate,’ ‘threaten,’ and ‘interfere.’

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

that an individual does not actually have to
be deterred from exercising or enjoying rights
under this section for the coercion to be
actionable.186
13. Importantly the coercion provision
does not apply to any and all conduct or
statements that an individual finds
intimidating; it only prohibits conduct that is
reasonably likely to interfere with the
exercise or enjoyment of PWFA rights.187
Some examples of coercion include:
• coercing an individual to relinquish or
forgo an accommodation to which they are
otherwise entitled;
• intimidating an applicant from
requesting an accommodation for the
application process by indicating that such a
request will result in the applicant not being
hired;
• issuing a policy or requirement that
purports to limit an employee’s rights to
invoke PWFA protections (e.g., a fixed leave
policy that states ‘‘no exceptions will be
made for any reason’’);
• interfering with a former employee’s
right to file a PWFA lawsuit against a former
employer by stating that a negative job
reference will be given to prospective
employers if the suit is filed; and
• subjecting an employee to unwarranted
discipline, demotion, or other adverse
treatment because they assisted a coworker in
requesting a reasonable accommodation.188
Possible Violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)) Based on Seeking Supporting
Documentation During the Reasonable
Accommodation Process and Disclosure of
Medical Information
14. Seeking documentation or information
that goes beyond the parameters laid out in
§ 1636.3(l) when an employee requests a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)) because seeking such
information or documentation might well
dissuade a reasonable person from engaging
in protected activity, such as requesting a
reasonable accommodation, or might
constitute coercion. Circumstances under
which going beyond the parameters of
§ 1636.3(l) may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(§ 1636.5(f)) include:
• Seeking supporting documentation or
information in response to an employee’s
request for reasonable accommodation when
it is not reasonable under the circumstances
for the covered entity to determine whether
the employee has a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions (a limitation) and needs
an adjustment or change at work due to the
Rather, as a group, these terms have been
interpreted to include at least certain types of
actions which, whether or not they rise to the level
of unlawful retaliation, are nevertheless actionable
as interference.’’).
186 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 89, at (II)(B)(1), (2) (noting that actions
can be challenged as retaliatory even if the person
was not deterred from engaging in protected
activity).
187 See id at (III) (discussing the ADA’s
interference provision).
188 See id.

PO 00000

Frm 00122

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

limitation, whether or not the employee
provides the documentation or information
and whether or not the employer grants the
accommodation.
• Continued efforts to obtain more
information or supporting documentation
when sufficient information or supporting
documentation has already been provided to
allow the employer to determine whether the
employee has a physical or mental condition
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions (a limitation) and the adjustment
or change at work that is needed due to the
limitation, whether or not the employee
provides the documentation or information
and whether or not the employer grants the
accommodation.189
15. Disclosing medical information,
threatening to disclose medical information,
or requiring an employee to share their
medical information other than in the limited
situations set out in section 1636.7(a)(1) of
this appendix under Prohibition on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information also may violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)) because such actions
might well dissuade a reasonable person
from engaging in protected activity, such as
requesting a reasonable accommodation, or
might constitute coercion.190
16. Actions that the courts or the
Commission have previously determined
may be retaliation or interference under Title
VII or the ADA may violate the retaliation
and coercion provisions of the PWFA as well.
Depending on the facts, a covered entity’s
retaliation for activity protected under the
PWFA also may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(1) (because these actions may make the
accommodation ineffective) or 2000gg–1(5)
(prohibiting adverse actions) (§ 1636.4(a) and
(e)).
17. The following examples could violate
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) and also may violate 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), (5) or other laws.
Example #61/Retaliatory Performance
Appraisal: Perrin requests a stool to sit on
189 This is based on a similar policy adopted
under the ADA. See Enforcement Guidance on
Disability-Related Inquiries, supra note 152, at
Question 11 (‘‘[W]hen an employee provides
sufficient evidence of the existence of a disability
and the need for reasonable accommodation,
continued efforts by the employer to require that
the individual provide more documentation and/or
submit to a medical examination could be
considered retaliation.’’). The Commission notes
that if the covered entity can show that it had a
good faith belief that the submitted documentation
was insufficient and thus sought additional
documentation, its actions would not be retaliatory
because they would lack the requisite intent.
190 As described in detail infra in section
1636.7(a)(1) of this appendix under Prohibition on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations and Protection of Medical
Information, the ADA’s rules on medical
confidentiality apply to medical information
obtained under the PWFA and allow for disclosure
of such information only in specific, limited
circumstances. See 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3); 29 CFR
1630.14; Enforcement Guidance on DisabilityRelated Inquiries, supra note 152, at text
accompanying nn.9–10; Enforcement Guidance:
Preemployment Disability-Related Questions, supra
note 152, at text accompanying n.6.

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
due to her pregnancy which makes standing
difficult. Lucy, Perrin’s supervisor, denies
Perrin’s request. The corporate human
resources department instructs Lucy to grant
the request because there is no undue
hardship. Angry about being told to provide
the reasonable accommodation, Lucy
thereafter gives Perrin an unjustified poor
performance rating and denies Perrin’s
request to attend training that Lucy approves
for Perrin’s coworkers.
Example #62/Retaliatory Surveillance:
Marisol files an EEOC charge after Cyrus, her
supervisor, refuses to provide her with the
reasonable accommodation of help with
lifting following her cesarean section.
Marisol also alleges that after she requested
the accommodation, Cyrus asked two
coworkers to: conduct surveillance on
Marisol, including watching her at work;
note with whom she associated in the
workplace; suggest to other employees that
they should avoid her; and report her breaks
to Cyrus, who said he kept a record of this
information ‘‘just in case.’’
Example #63/Seeking Supporting
Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l): Mara
provides her employer with a note from her
health care provider explaining that she is
pregnant and will need the functions of her
position that require her to be around certain
chemicals to be temporarily suspended.
Mara’s supervisor requires that Mara confirm
the pregnancy through an ultrasound, even
though the employer already has sufficient
information to determine whether Mara has
a physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions (a
limitation) and needs an adjustment or
change at work due to the limitation.
Example #64/Dissuaded from Requesting
an Accommodation: During an interview at
an employment agency, Arden tells the
human resources staffer, Stanley, that Arden
is dealing with complications from their
recent childbirth and may need time off for
doctor’s appointments during their first few
weeks at work. Stanley counsels Arden that
needing leave so soon after starting will be
a ‘‘black mark’’ on their application and that
it would be a waste of time for the
employment agency to try to find work for
Arden.
Example #65/Threatening Future
Employment: Merritt, who gets jobs through
an employment agency, is fired after
requesting an accommodation under the
PWFA. The employment agency refuses to
refer Merritt to other employers, telling
Merritt that the agency only refers workers
who will not cause any trouble.
Example #66/Disciplined for Assisting
Other Employees: Jessie, a factory union
steward, ensures that workers know about
their rights under the PWFA and encourages
employees with known limitations to ask for
reasonable accommodations. Jessie helps
employees navigate the reasonable
accommodation process and provides
suggestions of possible reasonable
accommodations. Factory supervisors,
annoyed by the number of PWFA reasonable
accommodation requests, write up Jessie for
trivial timekeeping violations and other
actions that had not been deemed worthy of

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

discipline prior to Jessie assisting other
employees with their PWFA accommodation
requests.
Example #67/Negative Reference: While
she was pregnant, Laila requested and
received the reasonable accommodation of a
temporary suspension of the essential
function of moving heavy boxes and
placement in the light duty program. After
giving birth, Laila tells her employer that she
has decided to resign and stay home for a
year. Her employer responds that if Laila
follows through and resigns now, the
employer will have no choice but to give her
a negative reference because Laila demanded
an accommodation but did not have the
loyalty to come back after having her baby.
Example #68/Seeking Supporting
Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l): Robbie, a
retail worker, is pregnant. Her job requires
her to stand at a cash register. Because of her
pregnancy, Robbie has difficulty standing for
long periods of time. Robbie explains the
situation to the manager, who requires
Robbie to produce a signed doctor’s note
saying that Robbie is pregnant and needs to
sit. Because Robbie is pregnant and has
requested one of the simple modifications
that will virtually always be found to be a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship, and she has
confirmed the limitation and her need for the
modification due to the limitation, the
manager is not permitted to seek supporting
documentation, as set forth in
§ 1636.3(l)(1)(iii).
Example #69/Disciplined Through
Workplace Policy: Tina gave birth and started
a new job. She is experiencing urinary
incontinence related to, affected by, or
arising out of childbirth and needs time to
attend a medical appointment. Her new
employer has a policy that employees cannot
be absent during the first 90 days of work.
Tina requests and is given the reasonable
accommodation of time to attend her medical
appointment, but then is issued a
disciplinary write-up for missing work
during her first 90 days.
Example #70/Retaliatory Failure to Provide
Interim Reasonable Accommodation:
Dominique is lactating and, based on the
recommendation of her health care provider,
requests additional safety gear and protection
to reduce the risk that chemicals she works
with will contaminate her breast milk. The
equipment has to be ordered, and the
employer puts Dominique on unpaid leave
while waiting for the equipment, although
there is available work that Dominique could
perform that would not require her to be
around the chemicals while she waits for the
additional safety gear. Additionally, her
supervisor tells human resources staff that he
is tired of accommodating Dominique
because she asked for accommodations
during her pregnancy as well and there has
to be an end to her requests.
Example #71/Retaliation for Requesting
Safety Information: Wynne is pregnant and is
in a probationary period as a janitor. She asks
her supervisor for safety information about
the cleaning products that she handles as
part of her job and explains it is to help her
determine if she needs to ask for a reasonable
accommodation regarding exposure to the

PO 00000

Frm 00123

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29217

chemicals. Her supervisor tells her not to
worry and warns her that trying to get this
kind of information will mark her as a
troublemaker. During her first review near
the end of the probationary period, the
supervisor notes that, for an entry-level
janitor, Wynne asks many questions and
behaves like a troublemaker. The supervisor
terminates Wynne even though she was
performing satisfactorily.
Example #72/Seeking Supporting
Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l): An
employer adopts a policy requiring everyone
who requests a reasonable accommodation to
provide medical documentation in support of
the request. Cora, a production worker who
is 8 months pregnant, requests additional
bathroom breaks. The employer applies the
policy to her, refusing to provide the
accommodation until she submits supporting
documentation, even though under
§ 1636.3(l)(1)(iii) the employer is not
permitted to seek documentation in this
situation.
Example #73/Seeking Supporting
Documentation Beyond § 1636.3(l) and
Failure to Provide Accommodation: An
employer adopts a policy requiring everyone
who requests a reasonable accommodation to
provide supporting documentation. Fourteen
months after giving birth, Alex wants to
continue to pump at work, which is beyond
the length of time the PUMP Act requires.
She explains her request to her supervisor
and asks that she have breaks to pump and
that the room provided have a chair, a table,
access to electricity and running water.
Alex’s employer refuses to grant the
accommodations unless Alex provides
supporting documentation from her health
care provider. Alex cannot provide the
information, so she stops pumping. In
addition to potentially violating 42 U.S.C
2000gg–2(f), the employer cannot use the
lack of supporting documentation as a
defense to the failure to provide the
accommodations because seeking
documentation was not reasonable under the
circumstances as set forth in § 1636.3(l)(1)(iv)
and thus these actions may violate 42 U.S.C
2000gg–1(1) (§ 1636.4(a)(3)).
Example #74/Retaliatory Waiver of Rights:
An employer adopts a policy under which an
employee who files a claim with the EEOC
or another outside agency automatically
waives their right to have a complaint
processed through the employer’s internal
complaint procedure. Rebecca submitted an
internal complaint to her supervisor after her
request for a reasonable accommodation was
denied and, a month later, filed a charge with
the EEOC. The employer notified her that it
would stop investigating her internal
complaint until the EEOC matter was
resolved, but that she would be free to pursue
the internal resolution of her complaint if she
withdrew her EEOC charge. The employer’s
policy is retaliatory because it adversely
affects the employee by stripping her of an
employment privilege for filing a charge with
the EEOC.
Example #75/Disclosure of Medical
Information: Caroline requested and received
an accommodation under the PWFA in the
form of a lifting restriction due to a back
injury related to her pregnancy. Caroline’s

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29218

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

accommodation was granted early in her
third trimester. Two weeks after her
accommodation went into effect, during a
team meeting, Caroline’s supervisor went
around the table describing each team
members’ duties, sighing as she explained
that Caroline had a back injury due to
pregnancy that prevented her from lifting and
that Caroline’s injury was the reason that
other team members had extra duties. At
each biweekly team meeting for the next two
months, Caroline’s supervisor noted that
team members continued to be assigned extra
duties because of Caroline’s back injury. In
addition to potential violation 42 U.S.C
2000gg–2(f), this disclosure of medical
information violates the ADA’s
confidentiality rules, as it does not fit within
any of the five disclosure exceptions.
Example #76/Retaliatory Harassment:
Benita requested and received an
accommodation under the PWFA in the form
of a one-hour delayed start time due to
morning sickness related to her pregnancy.
Benita’s coworkers are aware that she is
receiving the accommodation due to a
condition related to her pregnancy. A few
days after Benita’s accommodation is
granted, her coworkers start to make
unwelcome, critical comments about her
‘‘late’’ arrivals on a frequent basis, including
that other pregnant individuals were able to
start work on time during their pregnancies,
that being able to ‘‘work during pregnancy is
mind over matter,’’ and calling her ‘‘lazy’’
and a ‘‘slacker.’’ The coworkers schedule
meetings that begin a half hour before Benita
arrives in the office and complain to Benita’s
supervisor that she arrives late to those
meetings. Because she cannot attend the
meetings, Benita falls behind on her work.
1636.5(g) Limitation on Monetary Damages
18. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(g),
using the language of the Civil Rights Act of
1991, 42 U.S.C. 1981a(a)(3), provides a
limitation on damages based on a ‘‘good faith
effort’’ to provide a reasonable
accommodation. The covered entity bears the
burden of proof for this affirmative defense.
This limitation on damages applies to
violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
(§ 1636.4(a)) only. It does not apply to any
other provisions of the PWFA.

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

VI. 1636.7

Relationship to Other Laws

1636.7(a)(1) Relationship to Other Laws in
General
1. The PWFA does not limit the rights of
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
under a Federal, State, or local law that
provides greater or equal protection. It is
equally true that a Federal, State, or local law
that provides less protection for individuals
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions than the PWFA does not
limit the rights provided by the PWFA.
2. Federal laws, including, but not limited
to, Title VII, the ADA, the FMLA, the
Rehabilitation Act, the PUMP Act, and Title
IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20
U.S.C. 1681 et seq., provide protections for
employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. Numerous
States and localities also have laws that

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

provide accommodations for pregnant
employees.191 All of the protections for
employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions in these laws
are unaffected by the PWFA. If these laws
provide greater protections than the PWFA,
the greater protections will apply. For
example, the State of Washington’s Healthy
Starts Act provides that certain
accommodations, including lifting
restrictions of 17 pounds or more, cannot be
the subject of an undue hardship defense.192
If an employee in Washington is seeking a
lifting restriction as a reasonable
accommodation for a pregnancy-related
reason under the Healthy Starts Act, an
employer in Washington cannot argue that a
lifting restriction of 20 pounds is an undue
hardship, even though that defense could be
raised if the claim were brought under the
PWFA.
3. Section 1636.7(a) also applies to Federal
or State occupational health and safety laws
and collective bargaining agreements (CBAs).
Thus, nothing in the PWFA limits an
employee’s rights under laws such as the
OSH Act or under a CBA if either of those
provide protection greater than or equal to
that of the PWFA.
The PWFA and Title VII
4. The PWFA uses many terms and
definitions from Title VII, and conduct that
is the subject of PWFA claims also may give
rise to claims under Title VII. For example,
a qualified pregnant employee who sought
leave for recovery from childbirth and was
terminated may have a claim under both
Title VII for sex discrimination and the
PWFA for failure to accommodate, adverse
employment action, or retaliation.193
5. Under Title VII, employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions may be able to receive
accommodations if they can identify a
comparator similar in their ability or inability
to work.194 Under the PWFA, qualified
employees with physical or mental
conditions related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions are entitled to reasonable
accommodations (absent undue hardship)
whether or not other employees have those
accommodations and whether or not the
affected employees are similar in their ability
or inability to work as employees not so
affected. Additionally, if the covered entity
offers a neutral reason or policy to explain
why qualified employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions cannot access a specific benefit,
the qualified employee with a known
limitation under the PWFA still may ask for
a waiver of that policy as a reasonable
accommodation. Under the PWFA, the
employer must grant the waiver, or another
reasonable accommodation, absent undue
hardship. If, for example, an employer denies
191 U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Women’s Bureau,
Employment Protections for Workers Who Are
Pregnant or Nursing, www.dol.gov/agencies/wb/
pregnant-nursing-employment-protections (last
visited Mar. 25, 2024).
192 Wash. Rev. Code 43.10.005(1)(d).
193 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), (5); 2000gg–2(f).
194 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

PO 00000

Frm 00124

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

a qualified pregnant employee’s request to
join its light duty program as a reasonable
accommodation because the program is for
employees with on-the-job injuries, it may be
a reasonable accommodation for the
employer’s light duty program policy to be
waived. Finally, employers in this situation
should remember that if there are others to
whom the benefit is extended, the Supreme
Court stated in Young v. UPS that ‘‘[the
employer’s] reason [for refusing to
accommodate a pregnant employee] normally
cannot consist simply of a claim that it is
more expensive or less convenient to add
pregnant women to the category of those . . .
whom the employer accommodates.’’ 195
Thus, if the undue hardship defense of the
employer under the PWFA is based solely on
cost or convenience, that defense could,
under certain fact patterns, nonetheless lead
to liability under Title VII.
6. Finally, nothing in the PWFA, this part,
or this Interpretive Guidance should be
interpreted to reduce or limit any protections
provided by Title VII.
The PWFA and the ADA
7. The PWFA uses many terms and
definitions from the ADA. Conduct that is the
subject of PWFA claims also may give rise to
claims under the ADA. For example, an
employee with postpartum depression
seeking a reasonable accommodation to
attend treatment whose employer fails to
provide the accommodation may have a
claim under both the PWFA and the ADA
(and possibly also Title VII). Similarly, an
employee who has a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions may have both a known
limitation under the PWFA and a disability
under the ADA (where the physical or mental
condition substantially limits a major life
activity, including a major bodily function—
in other words, the individual would have an
‘‘actual’’ ADA disability).196 In such case, the
employee may be entitled to accommodation,
absent undue hardship, under both the
PWFA and the ADA.
8. While it will depend on the specific
facts, if an employee could be covered under
either the PWFA or the ADA, a covered
entity’s analysis, in most cases, should begin
with the PWFA because the definition of
‘‘known limitation’’ under the PWFA covers
situations when the ADA does not apply.197
9. Requests for accommodation under the
PWFA may be indistinguishable from
requests for accommodation under the ADA
and there will be situations in which both
statutes apply. In one instance, the PWFA
known limitation also may be an ADA
disability. In another, employees with
existing disabilities may seek ADA coverage
for those, while also invoking the PWFA to
address limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
interacting with an existing disability. In
these situations, employees with disabilities
may require additional or different
accommodations and are entitled to them,
195 575 U.S. at 229.
196 42 U.S.C. 12102(1); 29 CFR 1630.2(g).
197 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations
absent undue hardship, under the PWFA
and/or the ADA.
10. There also will be situations where an
employee with a disability who has an
accommodation under the ADA seeks and is
granted an accommodation under the PWFA.
For example, an employee who uses an
adaptive keyboard as an ADA reasonable
accommodation temporarily may be assigned
to a new position as part of an
accommodation under the PWFA because an
essential function of their original position
has been temporarily suspended. In this
situation, the employer must continue to
provide the adaptive keyboard as an ADA
reasonable accommodation if it is necessary
for the employee to perform the essential
functions of the new position.
11. Because an individual may be covered
by both the ADA and the PWFA, and the
PWFA provides at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(1)
that nothing in the statute shall be construed
to invalidate or limit the powers, remedies,
and procedures under any Federal law that
provides greater or equal protection for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions, a
covered entity must apply the law that
provides the worker the most protection.
12. Examples Regarding Disability and
Pregnancy:
Example #77/Disability and Pregnancy:
Roxy is an accountant who has developed
gestational hypertension and preeclampsia
late in her pregnancy, causing damage to her
kidneys. As a result, Roxy needs leave for
periodic medical appointments to protect her
own health and the health of her pregnancy.
Because Roxy’s condition is both a physical
or mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions and a condition
that substantially limits one of her major
bodily functions (kidney function), it
qualifies as both a limitation under the
PWFA and a disability under the ADA.
Absent undue hardship, the employer must
provide Roxy with the accommodation she
requires due to her pregnancy (under the
PWFA) and her disability (under the ADA).
Of course, one effective accommodation may
be sufficient to satisfy requirements under
both statutes in this instance.
Example #78/Disability and Pregnancy:
Farah is a nurse who has diabetes, and her
employer has provided her with the
accommodation of breaks to eat small meals
throughout the day and breaks to check her
insulin levels. When Farah becomes
pregnant, she experiences morning sickness
that makes it difficult for her to eat in the
morning. As a result, she needs more breaks
for eating later in the day and occasionally
needs a break to rest while at work. Absent
undue hardship, the employer must provide
Farah with the additional accommodations
she requires due to her pregnancy under the
PWFA.
13. In cases where both the ADA and
PWFA apply, if an employer fails to provide
an accommodation the employee could
potentially file a claim for failure to
accommodate under both the ADA and the
PWFA. They also could file a separate ADA
claim if they experienced disparate treatment
based on a disability.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

Prohibition on Disability-Related Inquiries
and Medical Examinations and Protection of
Medical Information
14. Important protections from the ADA
that apply to all covered employees continue
to apply when employees are seeking
accommodations under the PWFA. First, the
rules limiting the ability of covered entities
to make disability-related inquiries or require
medical exams in the ADA apply to all
disability-related inquiries and medical
exams including those made in the context
of requests for PWFA accommodation.198 For
example, a covered entity may not ask an
employee who is seeking an accommodation
under the PWFA whether the employee has
asked for other accommodations in the past
or has preexisting conditions because these
questions are likely to elicit information
about a disability and are not job-related and
consistent with business necessity in this
context. Similarly, an employer’s response to
an employee’s request for accommodation
under the PWFA that requires the employee
to complete a release permitting the
employer to obtain the employee’s complete
medical records would not be job-related or
consistent with business necessity.
15. Second, under the ADA, covered
entities are required to keep medical
information of all applicants, employees, and
former employees (whether or not those
individuals have disabilities) confidential,
with limited exceptions.199 The Commission
has repeatedly stated that the requirement
applies to all medical information in the
employer’s possession, whether obtained
through inquiries pursuant to the ADA or
otherwise.200 Thus, this protection applies to
medical information obtained under the
PWFA, including medical information
provided voluntarily and medical
information provided as part of the
reasonable accommodation process.
Moreover, as a practical matter, in many
circumstances under the PWFA, the medical
198 See 42 U.S.C. 12112(d); 29 CFR 1630.13,
1630.14.
199 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR
1630.14(b)(1)(i) through (iii), (c)(1), (d)(4);
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related
Inquiries, supra note 152, at text accompanying
nn.9–10 (‘‘The ADA requires employers to treat any
medical information obtained from a disabilityrelated inquiry or medical examination . . ., as well
as any medical information voluntarily disclosed by
an employee, as a confidential medical record.
Employers may share such information only in
limited circumstances with supervisors, managers,
first aid and safety personnel, and government
officials investigating compliance with the ADA.’’)
and text after n.12 (‘‘[T]he ADA’s restrictions on
inquiries and examinations apply to all employees,
not just those with disabilities.’’); Enforcement
Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related
Questions, supra note 152, at text accompanying
n.6 (‘‘Medical information must be kept
confidential.’’).
200 See supra note 199. This policy also appears
in numerous EEOC technical assistance documents.
See, e.g., EEOC, Visual Disabilities in the Workplace
and the Americans with Disabilities Act, at text
preceding n.43 (2023), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/visual-disabilities-workplace-andamericans-disabilities-act#q8 (‘‘With limited
exceptions, an employer must keep confidential any
medical information it learns about an applicant or
employee.’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00125

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4700

29219

information obtained by an employer may
involve a condition that could be a disability;
rather than an employer attempting to parse
out whether to keep certain information
confidential or not, all medical information
should be kept confidential.201 Therefore,
medical information obtained under the
PWFA is subject to the ADA requirement that
information regarding the medical condition
or history of any employee be collected and
maintained on separate forms and in separate
medical files and be treated as a confidential
medical record.202
16. That an employee is pregnant, has
recently been pregnant, or has a medical
condition related to pregnancy or childbirth
is medical information. The ADA requires
that employers keep such information
confidential and only disclose it within the
confines of the limited disclosure rules
described in paragraphs 17 and 18 of this
section. Similarly, disclosing that an
employee is receiving or has requested an
accommodation under the PWFA, or has
limitations for which they requested or are
receiving a reasonable accommodation under
the PWFA, usually amounts to a disclosure
that the employee is pregnant, has recently
been pregnant, or has a related medical
condition.
17. As set forth at 29 CFR 1630.14, under
the ADA, medical information must be
collected and maintained on separate forms
and in separate medical files and be treated
as a confidential medical record, except that:
(i) Supervisors and managers may be
informed regarding necessary restrictions on
the work or duties of the employee and
necessary accommodations;
(ii) First aid and safety personnel may be
informed, when appropriate, if the disability
might require emergency treatment; and
(iii) Government officials investigating
compliance with the ADA shall be provided
relevant information on request.
18. In addition to what is stated in the
ADA regulation: covered entities (iv) may
disclose the medical information to State
workers’ compensation offices, State second
injury funds, or workers’ compensation
insurance carriers in accordance with State
workers’ compensation laws; and (v) may use
the medical information for insurance
purposes.203 All these disclosure exceptions
apply to medical information obtained under
the PWFA. Disclosing medical information in
any circumstances, other than those set forth
in these five recognized disclosure
exceptions, violates the ADA’s
confidentiality rule.
19. In addition, as explained in section
1636.5(f) of this appendix under Possible
Violations of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
201 Requests for accommodation under the PWFA
also may overlap with FMLA issues, and the FMLA
requires medical information to be kept confidential
as well. 29 CFR 825.500(g).
202 42 U.S.C. 12112(d)(3)(B); 29 CFR
1630.14(b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(4)(i); see Enforcement
Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related
Questions, supra note 152, at text accompanying
the question ‘‘Can medical information be kept in
an employee’s regular personnel file?’’
203 See Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment
Disability-Related Questions, supra note 152, at text
accompanying the heading ‘‘Confidentiality.’’

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

29220

Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 77 / Friday, April 19, 2024 / Rules and Regulations

(§ 1636.5(f)) Based on Seeking Supporting
Documentation During the Reasonable
Accommodation Process and Disclosure of
Medical Information, disclosing medical
information, threatening to disclose medical
information, or requiring an employee to
share their medical information other than in
the limited situations set out in paragraphs
17 and 18 of this section also may violate 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)).204 Given the
protections for confidential medical
information under the ADA and the potential
of violating 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), if a
covered entity is under an obligation to
disclose medical information received under
the PWFA in any circumstances other than
those provided in this Interpretive Guidance,
before doing so it should inform the
individual to whom the information relates
of its intent to disclose the information;
identify the specific reason for the disclosure;
and provide sufficient time for the individual
to object.
20. Finally, nothing in the PWFA, this part,
or this Interpretive Guidance should be
interpreted to reduce or limit any protections
provided by the ADA.
1636.7(a)(2) Limitations Related to EmployerSponsored Health Plans
21. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2)
states that nothing in the PWFA shall be

khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with RULES4

204 See, e.g., Haire v. Farm & Fleet of Rice Lake,
Inc., No. 2:21–CV–10967, 2022 WL 128815, at *8–
*9 (E.D. Mich. Jan. 12, 2022) (disclosing personal
and confidential information about an employee’s
medical condition and mental health episodes to
her coworkers could constitute retaliation under
Title VII); Holtrey v. Collier Cnty. Bd. of Cnty.
Comm’rs, No. 2:16–CV–00034, 2017 WL 119649, at
*3 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 12, 2017) (determining that an
employer’s disclosure of its employee’s confidential
medical information about his genito-urinary
system to his coworkers and subordinates could
constitute retaliation under FMLA, relying on Title
VII’s definition of ‘‘materially adverse action’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

02:32 Apr 19, 2024

Jkt 262001

construed to require an employer-sponsored
health plan to pay for or cover any item,
procedure, or treatment and, further, that
nothing in the PWFA shall be construed to
affect any right or remedy available under
any other Federal, State, or local law with
respect to any such payment or coverage
requirement. For example, nothing in the
PWFA requires, or forbids, an employer to
pay for health insurance benefits for an
abortion.
1636.7(b) Rule of Construction
22. The statute at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b)
provides a ‘‘rule of construction’’ stating that
the PWFA is ‘‘subject to the applicability to
religious employment’’ set forth in section
702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42
U.S.C. 2000e–1(a). The relevant portion of
section 702(a) provides that Title VII shall
not apply to a religious corporation,
association, educational institution, or
society with respect to the employment of
individuals of a particular religion to perform
work connected with the carrying on by such
corporation, association, educational
institution, or society of its activities.205
Section 1636.7(b) reiterates the PWFA
statutory language and adds that nothing in
42 U.S.C. 2000g–5(b) or this part should be
interpreted to limit the rights of a covered
entity under the U.S. Constitution or the
rights of an employee under other civil rights
statutes. As with assertions of section 702(a)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in Title VII
matters, when 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) is
asserted by a respondent employer, the
Commission will consider the application of
the provision on a case-by-case basis.206

VII. 1636.8

Severability

1. The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–6
contains a severability provision regarding
the statute. Section 1636.8 repeats the
statutory provision and also addresses the
Commission’s intent regarding the
severability of the Commission’s regulations
in this part and this Interpretive Guidance.
2. Following Congress’ rule for the statute,
in places where this part uses the same
language as the statute, if any of those
identical regulatory provisions, or the
application of those provisions to particular
persons or circumstances, is held invalid or
found to be unconstitutional, the remainder
of this part and the application of that
provision of this part to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
3. In other places, where this part or this
Interpretive Guidance provide additional
guidance to carry out the PWFA, including
examples of reasonable accommodations,
following Congress’ intent regarding the
severability of the provisions of the statute,
it is the Commission’s intent that if any of
those regulatory provisions or the
Interpretive Guidance or the application of
those provisions or the Interpretive Guidance
to particular persons or circumstances is held
invalid or found to be unconstitutional, the
remainder of this part or the Interpretive
Guidance and the application of that
provision of this part or the Interpretive
Guidance to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected.
[FR Doc. 2024–07527 Filed 4–15–24; 11:15 am]
BILLING CODE 6570–01–P

205 The PWFA makes no mention of section

703(e)(2) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which
provides a second statutory exemption for religious
educational institutions in certain circumstances.
206 The case-by-case analysis of religious defenses
asserted in response to a charge under the PWFA

PO 00000

Frm 00126

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 9990

is consistent with the Commission’s framework
evaluating similar defenses under other statutes the
Commission enforces. See Compliance Manual on
Religious Discrimination, supra note 163, at (12–
I)(C).

E:\FR\FM\19APR4.SGM

19APR4

