1201 16th St., N.W.   |   Washington, DC  20036    |   Phone: (202) 833-4000 Rebecca S. Pringle 
President 
 

 
Princess R. Moss 
Vice President 

  

Noel Candelaria 
 Secretary-Treasurer 

 

 Kim A. Anderson 
Executive Director 

October 10, 2023 

SUBMITTED VIA REGULATIONS.GOV 

Raymond Windmiller 
Executive Officer 
Executive Secretariat 
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
131 M Street NE 
Washington, DC 20507 
 
Re: Docket Number: EEOC-2023-17041; Regulations To Implement the Pregnant Workers 
Fairness Act.  
 
Dear Mr. Windmiller:  
 
On behalf of the three million members of the National Education Association (NEA), an 
organization dedicated to supporting educators and students nationwide. we submit these 
comments in support of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s (“EEOC” or 
“Commission”) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”), RIN 3046–AB30, Regulations to 
Implement the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, published in the Federal Register on August 11, 
2023.1 
 
The NEA’s membership is predominantly comprised of educators in K-12 public schools – 
including classroom teachers, specialized instructional support personnel, and education support 
professionals throughout school buildings – as well as educators in colleges and universities. 
More than 70% of the NEA’s active members identify as female.2 The NEA has long fought for 
its members’ rights to pursue their chosen profession in the face of pregnancy discrimination, 
perhaps best exemplified in the fight that led to the groundbreaking victory in Cleveland Board 
of Education v. LaFleur, 414 U.S. 632 (1974), striking down unconstitutional paternalistic 
policies that forced pregnant teachers onto maternity leave. Nearly 50 years later, the NEA 
celebrates the passage of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (“PWFA”) and its promise to 
educators who may have pregnancy-related needs over the course of their careers. In addition, as 
a national labor organization, we are committed to ensuring that no worker must choose between 
their job and their health or a healthy pregnancy. 
  

 
1 88 Fed. Reg. 54714 (Aug. 11, 2023). 

2 In addition, a small number (less than 1%) identify as transgender males or as gender expansive/non-conforming. 



We thank the EEOC for issuing this strong and sensible proposed rule implementing the PWFA. 
Overall, the proposed rule provides important clarity for both workers and employers and will 
fulfill the law’s purpose of ensuring people with known limitations related to pregnancy, 
childbirth, or related medical conditions can remain healthy and working.  
 
As provided below, we support additional changes to the proposed rule, that have also been 
recommended by pregnant workers’ advocacy organizations, to clarify requirements and ensure 
that pregnant and postpartum workers and others with pregnancy-related medical conditions can 
fully protect their health and their jobs. 
 
Unnecessary Delay  
 
We applaud the EEOC for making clear that employer delay in responding to accommodation 
requests “may result in a violation of the PWFA.”3 In order to ensure workers get the 
accommodations they need without unnecessary delay, we recommend the following changes to 
the proposed rule and proposed appendix:  
 
Strengthen the “Unnecessary Delay” Definition  
 
1. 1636.4(a)(1). We urge the EEOC to clarify that unnecessary delays at any point during the 

accommodation process may result in violation, not just delays in “responding to a 
reasonable accommodation request.” To that end, we recommend the EEOC amend 
1636.4(a)(1) by striking “An unnecessary delay in responding to a reasonable 
accommodation request may result in a violation of the PWFA” and replacing it with “An 
unnecessary delay in responding to a reasonable accommodation request, engaging in the 
interactive process, or providing a reasonable accommodation may result in a violation of the 
PWFA.”  
 

2. 1636.4(a)(1)(vi). We agree that covered entities should provide interim accommodations 
during the interactive process if the employee’s original accommodation request cannot be 
immediately granted. However, providing interim accommodation should not excuse 
“unnecessary delay” in providing the ultimate accommodation the worker needs. We 
therefore recommend the EEOC remove the sentence “If an interim reasonable 
accommodation is offered, delay by the covered entity is more likely to be excused.” 

 
3. 1636.4(a). We appreciate the EEOC’s inclusion of a variety of factors to be considered when 

evaluating unnecessary delays. We recommend the EEOC add one additional factor to the 
list: “The urgency of the requested accommodation.” In some cases, pregnant people who do 
not receive immediate relief can face tragic consequences, such as employees who are denied 

 
3 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n. 98 (Aug. 11, 2023).  

 
2 

 



permission to seek emergency medical care, and as a result, experience complications or 
loss.4  

 
State That “Unnecessary Delay” in the Interactive Process Can Violate PWFA 
 
1636.3(k). We respectfully ask the EEOC to add a sentence to the definition of Interactive 
Process as follows: “Unnecessary delay, as defined in § 1636.4(a)(1), in the interactive process 
may result in a violation of the PWFA.” We also request that the EEOC add an example in the 
proposed appendix that illustrates how the interactive process can occur quickly and informally, 
by, for example, an employee making a simple request of her immediate supervisor, and her 
immediate supervisor agreeing on the spot to make the requested change.  
 
Add a Definition of “Interim Accommodation” to the Reasonable Accommodation Definition  
 
1636.3(h). Providing employers with a clear understanding of the meaning of the term “interim 
accommodation” will encourage use of such accommodations to avoid delay. To that end, we 
suggest adding a new subsection 1636.3(h)(6) that reads: “Interim Reasonable Accommodation 
means any temporary or short-term measure put in place immediately or as soon as possible after 
the employee requests an accommodation that allows the employee to continue working safely 
and comfortably while the employer and employee engage in the interactive process, or the 
employer implements a reasonable accommodation arrived at through the interactive process.”  
 
Supporting Documentation  
 
Unnecessary delay can also result from burdensome and unnecessary medical certification 
requirements. We appreciate the EEOC’s query as to whether the supporting documentation 
framework the Commission sets out in proposed rule 1636.3(l) strikes the right balance between 
the needs of workers and employers. As the EEOC recognizes in the proposed appendix, many 
workers face barriers in obtaining appointments with health care providers in a timely way, 
posing significant barriers to obtaining medical documentation.5 This is especially true for 
workers in rural areas and low-wage workers who may not have consistent access to health care 
and disproportionately lack control over their work schedules.6 Furthermore, women of color, 
particularly Black women, often face medical racism that may inhibit or delay their ability to 
secure supporting documentation.7  

 
4 See, e.g., A Better Balance, Long Overdue: It is Time for the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act 8, 11 (2019), 
https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Long-Overdue.pdf (citing examples of workers who 
fainted and needed emergency care or experienced pregnancy loss as a result of not being accommodated).  
5 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 & n.87 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
6 See, e.g., C. Brigance et. al, March of Dimes, Nowhere to Go: Maternity Deserts Across the U.S. 5, 11 (2022), 
https://www.marchofdimes.org/sites/default/files/2022-10/2022_Maternity_Care_Report.pdf (noting that 4.7 million 
women live in counties with limited access to maternity care, and that half of women who live in rural communities 
have to travel over 30 minutes to access an obstetric hospital).   
7 See, e.g., Brittany D. Chambers et al, Clinicians' Perspectives on Racism and Black Women's Maternal Health, 3 
Women’s Health Rep. 476, 479 (2022), https://www.ncbi.nlm.ni 
 
 

3 
 



 
The PWFA recognizes the importance of workers obtaining timely accommodations to protect 
their health. Because some aspects of the proposed rule regarding supporting documentation 
would unfortunately impose an unnecessary burden on workers, contribute to delay in receiving 
reasonable accommodations, and deter workers from seeking the accommodations they need for 
their health and wellbeing, we urge the EEOC to make the following modifications to the 
proposed rule:  
 
1. 1636.3(l)(1)(i). Clarifying “obvious” needs. We agree with the Commission that employers 

should not be permitted to seek medical documentation when the need for accommodation is 
“obvious.” We are concerned, however, that employers could unilaterally impose restrictions 
based on paternalistic stereotypes about what pregnant or postpartum people “obviously” 
need, or that the proposed rule could have the unintended consequence of invasive scrutiny 
of an employee’s body as employers consider whether their pregnancy is “obvious.” For 
these reasons, we encourage the Commission to maintain this important concept in the final 
regulations, but to clarify how it is to be applied. We suggest replacing the current text of 
1636.3(l)(1)(i) with the following: “(i) When the employee has confirmed, through self-
attestation, that they have a limitation related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical 
condition, and the need for accommodation is obvious.” We encourage the Commission to 
define the term “obvious” as the term generally implies a level of subjectivity. In addition to 
defining “obvious”, we also recommend that the Commission provide guidance and 
examples of what may constitute an “obvious” need for accommodation and warn employers 
in the proposed appendix against imposing accommodations not requested by the employee 
based on assumptions that the need for accommodation is “obvious.” 

  
2. 1636.3(l)(1)(iii). We applaud the Commission for making clear that employers cannot seek 

supporting documentation for certain straightforward accommodation requests.8 We urge the 
EEOC to expand the list to also include: 

 
● Time off, up to 8 weeks, to recover from childbirth.  
● Time off to attend healthcare appointments related to pregnancy, childbirth, or 

related medical conditions, including, at minimum, at least 16 healthcare 
appointments.9  

 
h.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9148644/ (“Clinicians acknowledged that racism causes and impacts the provision of 
inequitable care provided to Black women, highlighting Black women are often dismissed and not included as active 
participants in care decisions and treatment.”); see also Black Mamas Matter Alliance and A Better Balance, 
Centering the Experiences of Black Mamas in the Workplace (2022), https://www.abetterbalance.org/centering-
black-mamas-pwfa/.  
8 88 Fed. Reg. 54769 (Aug. 11, 2023) (stating that it is not reasonable to require supporting documentation beyond 
self-attestation when the accommodation is one listed as a predictable assessment or relates to lactation or pumping). 
9 Nearly every state paid sick time law permits employers to request a healthcare provider note only if the person 
needs time off for 3 or more consecutive days. See A Better Balance, Know Your Rights: State and Local Paid Sick 
Time Laws FAQs (last updated July 7, 2022), https://www.abetterbalance.org/resources/know-your-rights-state-and-
local-paid-sick-time-laws/.  We suggest a minimum of 16 appointments as it reflects the average number of 
 
 

4 
 



● Flexible scheduling or remote work for nausea.10   
● Modifications to uniforms or dress code. 
● Allowing rest breaks, as needed. 
● Eating or drinking at a workstation.  
● Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair.  
● Moving a workstation, such as to be closer to a bathroom or lactation space, or 

away from toxins.  
● Providing personal protective equipment.  
● Reprieve from lifting over 20 pounds.  
● Access to closer parking. 

 
3. 1636.3(l)(2): We commend the EEOC for making clear that employers may only demand 

“reasonable documentation.” This is critical so that employers understand that PWFA 
documentation requirements are much less onerous than those under the FMLA and ADA. 
Thus, we strongly encourage the Commission to do the following to ensure employers 
request only “reasonable” documentation:  

a. Modify the definition of reasonable documentation found in 1636.3(l)(2). It is 
unnecessarily invasive for an employer to demand to know their employee’s precise 
condition or a description of it; rather it should be sufficient for a health care provider 
to (1) describe the employee’s limitation that necessitates accommodation, (2) 
confirm that the limitation is related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical 
condition, and (3) state that they require an accommodation. For example, medical 
documentation need not state that a worker needs to attend a medical appointment 
related to a miscarriage but can simply state that the employee needs to attend a 
medical appointment during the workday (the limitation) due to pregnancy, 
childbirth, or a related medical condition, and thus a modified start time (the 
accommodation) is recommended. 

b. Make clear in the proposed rule or proposed appendix that employers cannot require 
employees to submit any particular medical certification form, so long as the health 
care provider documents the requisite three pieces of information, as explained 
immediately above. Additionally, make clear that employers cannot require 
employees to complete ADA or FMLA certification forms in order to receive a 
PWFA accommodation, as such forms seek substantially more information than is 
“reasonable” under PWFA.  

 
appointments for prenatal and postnatal care for low-risk pregnancies. See Alex Friedman Peahl et. al, A 
Comparison of International Prenatal Care Guidelines for Low-Risk Women to Inform High-Value Care, 222 
American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology 505, 505 (2020), https://www.ajog.org/article/S0002-9378(20)30029-
6/fulltext (stating that the median number of recommended prenatal care visits for a low-risk pregnancy in the 
United States is 12-14 visits); ACOG Committee Opinion No. 736: Optimizing Postpartum Care, 131 Obstetrics & 
Gynecology 140, 141 (2018), 
https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/fulltext/2018/05000/acog_committee_opinion_no__736__optimizing.42.aspx 
(recommending at least two postpartum care appointments, with ongoing care as needed).  
10 See 29 CFR § 825.115(f) (“Absences attributable to incapacity [due to pregnancy] qualify for FMLA leave even 
though the employee . . . does not receive treatment from a health care provider during the absence . . . . An 
employee who is pregnant may be unable to report to work because of severe morning sickness.”).  
 

5 
 



c. We urge the EEOC to clarify that under no circumstances may an employer require 
an employee to take any sort of test to confirm their pregnancy or to provide 
documentation or other proof of pregnancy. The Commission should clarify that self-
attestations of pregnancy are sufficient. 

 
4. 1636.3(l)(3) Health care providers.  

a. We applaud the EEOC for its comprehensive, albeit non-exhaustive, list of health 
care providers from whom employees can seek documentation. However, employers 
should not have the discretion to second guess the judgment of licensed healthcare 
providers due to an assumption that they are not “appropriate” for the situation. We 
therefore urge the Commission to remove the terms “appropriate” and “in a particular 
situation” from the sentence “The covered entity may request documentation from the 
appropriate health care provider in a particular situation” (emphasis added).  

b. We also urge the EEOC to make clear in the proposed rule or proposed appendix that 
employers must accept documentation from telehealth care providers.  

 
5. We appreciate that the EEOC mentioned in the proposed appendix that it is a best practice for 

employers to provide interim accommodations if an employee is delayed in obtaining 
supporting documentation.11 We suggest the Commission strengthen this provision by 
clarifying that the interim accommodation provided must be an accommodation that meets 
the employee’s needs and would not constitute an adverse action, such as forced unpaid 
leave, against the employee.  

 
Temporary Excusal from Essential Functions  
 
§1636.3(f)(2) Qualified employee or applicant. We thank the EEOC for the thoughtful 
framework to determine whether an employee or applicant is qualified if they cannot perform 
one or more essential functions. We recommend that the definition of “in the near future” post-
pregnancy be one year rather than forty weeks, except with respect to lactation, which we believe 
should be extended to 2 years. Furthermore, we support the EEOC’s approach to not combine 
periods of temporary suspension of an essential function during pregnancy and post-pregnancy.  
 
First, with respect to the timeframe for postpartum accommodations, the Commission cites to 
important medical findings and Medicaid extension all pointing to the importance of one year for 
postpartum reasonable accommodations.12 Allowing a temporary excusal of an essential function 
for generally one year postpartum is critical for maternal and infant health. It is especially 
important for pregnant people who are at a higher risk, including Black women, who are three 
times as likely to die of pregnancy-related causes than white women.13 We also urge the 
Commission to extend it to two years for lactation-related accommodations. The American 

 
11 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
12 88 Fed. Reg. 54724-25 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
13 Working Together to Reduce Black Maternal Mortality, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Apr. 4, 
2023), https://www.cdc.gov/healthequity/features/maternal-mortality/index.html.  
 

6 
 



Association of Pediatrics recommends parents express milk for at least two years following 
childbirth for both maternal and infant health.14  
 
Second, we recommend keeping the proposed rule’s framework of restarting the time frame for 
excusing an essential function, precisely for the reasons stated in the proposed appendix–that 
pregnant workers very often cannot possibly anticipate what needs or limitations may occur 
postpartum. The same may be true during pregnancy itself, and thus, each accommodation 
request should be considered based on specific “limitation” at issue. We urge the EEOC to state 
in the regulation the principle found in the Interpretive Guidance that the timeframe restarts with 
each new accommodation request and following return from childbirth leave.  
 
Reasonable Accommodation  
 
We appreciate the EEOC’s detailed discussion of reasonable accommodations, which reflects the 
range of accommodations workers impacted by pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical 
conditions need to remain healthy and continue to do their jobs. Again, we agree with the 
recommendations of other pregnant worker advocates about ways the Commission can clarify 
and strengthen the proposed regulations in the following ways:  
 
1636.3(i): We urge the EEOC to add a new subsection to 1636.3(i) that provides as an 
additional example of reasonable accommodation: “modifications that alleviate pain or 
discomfort and reduce health risks for the employee or applicant or their pregnancy.” We 
appreciate the EEOC’s highlighting in the proposed appendix the critical nature of 
accommodations that alleviate increased pain and health risks.15 We suggest that the EEOC make 
this category of accommodation more prominent in the rule itself and add additional examples to 
the proposed appendix. Additionally, we urge the EEOC to delete the language in 1636.3(i)(2) 
which qualifies that “adjustments to allow an employee or applicant to work without increased 
pain or increased risk” must be “due to the employee’s or applicant’s known limitation.” This 
language is unnecessary since it is already the case for all accommodations and may create 
confusion about whether the employee must make some additional showing.  

 
1636.3(i)(3): We commend the Commission’s thoughtful treatment of leave as a reasonable 
accommodation and suggest modifications. PWFA’s purpose could not be realized without 
access to leave as an accommodation. The most at-risk workers have zero sick days and are 
ineligible for FMLA. For NEA members, this is of particular concern for education support 
professionals, who are often not covered by FLMA. And while we continue to advocate for 
legislative fixes to this gap in coverage, and while the U.S. desperately needs a comprehensive 

 
14 Joan Younger Meek, Lawrence Noble, and the Section on Breastfeeding, Policy Statement: Breastfeeding and the 
Use of Human Milk, 150 Pediatrics 1, 11 (2022), 
https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/150/1/e2022057988/188347/Policy-Statement-Breastfeeding-and-the-
Use-of?autologincheck=redirected. Employers can still raise a defense that accommodating lactation-related needs 
for two years would impose an undue hardship. 
15 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
 

7 
 



paid leave program, leave provided as an accommodation under PWFA will provide a lifeline to 
many who could be fired for seeking medical care or taking time to recover from childbirth.  
 
We suggest two modifications to the proposed rule regarding leave as an accommodation in 
1636.3(i)(3). 
 
First, in its discussion on leave, the Commission notes one potential accommodation as “The 
ability to choose whether to use paid leave … or unpaid leave to the extent that the covered entity 
allows employees using leave not related to pregnancy… to choose…” 1636.3(i)(3)(iii). 
Similarly, the Commission notes in the proposed appendix that “an employer must continue an 
employee’s health insurance benefits during their leave period to the extent that it does so for 
other employees in a similar leave status.” Fed. Reg. 54780-81.  We respectfully suggest that, 
under PWFA, whether these potential accommodations should be provided turns on the question 
of undue hardship, not on how other employees are treated. Accordingly, we urge the EEOC to 
modify its treatment of these leave-related accommodations by deleting the comparative 
reference to other employees.16 As with all accommodations, employers may be obligated to 
modify standard practices to accommodate people with limitations related to pregnancy, 
childbirth or related medical conditions, even if a particular benefit is not routinely offered to 
other employees. 
 
Additionally, we strongly urge the Commission to include “continuation of health 
insurance benefits during the period of leave” in 1636.3(i)(3) as another potential leave-
related accommodation that must be provided absent undue hardship. For many workers, 
the opportunity to access leave as a reasonable accommodation is hollow without continuation of 
health benefits, as access to uninterrupted healthcare is vital during pregnancy and the 
postpartum period.17 This interpretation is supported by the intent of the PWFA,18 which not only 
has the goal of continued employment, but also the goal of promoting maternal and child 
health.19 The reasonableness of providing continued health insurance benefits during a period of 

 
16 Of course, if other employees receive a particular accommodation, that may be evidence of no undue hardship.  
17 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Improving Access to Maternal Health Care in Rural Communities 6 
(“A lack of access to maternal health care can result in a number of negative maternal health outcomes including 
premature birth, low-birth weight, maternal mortality, severe maternal morbidity, and increased risk of postpartum 
depression”), https://www.cms.gov/About-CMS/Agency-Information/OMH/equity-initiatives/rural-
health/09032019-Maternal-Health-Care-in-Rural-Communities.pdf.  
18 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 22-24 (2021), https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf. 
19 ADA guidance from 2002 states that employers must continue insurance benefits when an employee is on leave as 
an ADA accommodation only to the same extent they do so for other employees. See EEOC, Enforcement Guidance 
on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text after n. 59 (2002), 
http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-unduehardship-under-
ada. However, the statutory text of the ADA and its implementing regulations support the principle that providing 
continued health benefits during leave may be a reasonable accommodation, even if other employees do not receive 
the same benefit, where the continued benefits can be provided without undue hardship. The longstanding ADA 
principle that gives employees with disabilities an affirmative right to receive the same health insurance benefits as 
are provided to other employees stems from the ADA’s prohibition on “limiting, segregating, or classifying a job 
applicant or employee in a way that adversely affects the opportunities or status of such applicant or employee 
because of the disability” See 42 U.S.C. § 12112; 29 C.F.R. pt. 1630 app. 1630.5 (“this part is intended to require 
 
 

8 
 



leave is also supported by the FMLA requirement that employers do so for up to 12 weeks every 
year,20 as well as state laws that require continued health benefits during leave taken for 
pregnancy or other health reasons.21 
 
1636.3(i)(4). We urge the Commission to expand the examples of reasonable 
accommodation for lactation. We appreciate the EEOC’s highlighting the reasonable 
accommodations often needed by lactating workers who are pumping milk. While we 
wholeheartedly celebrate the recent passage of the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act, that law is 
limited to providing reasonable break time and private space for only one year following the 
birth of an employee’s child.22 However, many lactating employees require other reasonable 
accommodations, including the pumping accommodations identified by the Commission in 
1636.3(i)(4)(ii), as well as accommodations unrelated to pumping. We encourage the 
Commission to highlight some of these other lactation accommodations by adding a new section 
3(i)(4)(iii): “Any other job modification, including those identified in 1636.3(i)(2), that would 
remove barriers to producing or expressing human milk, breastfeeding, or chestfeeding; avoid or 
alleviate lactation-related health complications; or reduce the risk of contaminating human milk 
produced by the employee.”  
 
Related Medical Conditions 
 
The definition of “pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions” is appropriately 
expansive. In expressly seeking to supplement the protections currently afforded to workers 
under the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA), the PWFA is properly read to incorporate the 
case law interpreting the PDA’s parallel language.23 
 
1636.3(b) - Pregnancy. We encourage the EEOC to clarify that the term pregnancy includes 
“common pregnancy symptoms,” such as increased bodily pain, discomfort, fatigue, changes in 
thirst and appetite, headaches, lightheadedness, mood changes, heartburn and indigestion, and 
leg cramps.  
 

 
that employees with disabilities be accorded equal access to whatever health insurance coverage the employer 
provides to other employees.”). But this non-discrimination concept should not be conflated with the standard for 
providing reasonable accommodation, which does not turn on how other employees are treated. Even if the principle 
from the 2002 guidance were supported by the ADA, it would not be instructive in the PWFA context, given the 
clear legislative intent of the PWFA to promote healthy pregnancies and reproductive health and to allow employees 
to take leave following childbirth, all while maintaining their health insurance.  
20 Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. § 2614(c); 29 C.F.R. § 825.209.  
21 For example, under the California Pregnancy Disability Leave Law and the California Family Rights Act, 
employees have a right to take up to 7 months of leave with continued health insurance benefits during pregnancy 
and following childbirth. Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11044(c) (employer must continue to provide health insurance 
benefits during 4 months of pregnancy disability leave); Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11092(c) (continued health 
insurance benefits for up to 12 weeks for leave taken to bond with a new child).  
22 Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328 Division KK).  
23 See 168 Cong. Rec. H. 10528 (2022) (statement of Rep. Nadler), 
https://www.congress.gov/117/crec/2022/12/23/168/201/CREC-2022-12-23.pdf (“The Pregnant Workers Fairness 
Act aligns with Title VII in providing protections and reasonable accommodations for ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, and 
related medical conditions’’, like lactation.”)  
 

9 
 



1636.3(b) - Related Medical Conditions.  
We strongly support the inclusion of termination of pregnancy, including by abortion, in the 
enumerated examples of “related medical conditions” that may require accommodation. In 
addition to comprising an essential component of reproductive health care24 needed by hundreds 
of thousands of people in the U.S. every year25, abortion’s place among the full range of 
statutorily protected “related medical conditions” is rooted in decades of legislative, 
administrative, and judicial authority. Indeed, in enacting the PDA, Congress expressly 
confirmed its intent that the statute protect workers from discrimination for obtaining abortion 
care.26 The EEOC reaffirmed abortion as a “related medical condition” in its 2015 guidance.27 It 
also made it explicit that fringe benefits like paid sick days must be provided for abortions if they 
are provided for other medical conditions.28 As the Commission notes in the proposed 
Interpretive Guidance, courts consistently have found that the PDA’s protections encompass the 
right to be free from discrimination on the basis of contemplating or obtaining abortion care.29  
Moreover, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX), which protects employees 
of education institutions from discrimination on the basis of sex, likewise prohibits 
discrimination based on “termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.”30 
 
We also applaud the EEOC’s inclusion of “menstrual cycles” as a “related medical condition” 
that employers are obligated to accommodate. Our reproductive lives last for decades, and our 
needs will differ at various points during those years. Consistent with that reality, we urge the 
Commission to add perimenopause and menopause to the list of “related medical conditions.” 
While we recognize that the list of examples is non-exhaustive, and that both of these conditions 
fall within a reasonable construction of “menstrual cycles,” the documented dismissiveness 
perimenopausal and menopausal women face from their employers demands making those 
conditions’ inclusion explicit. Recent studies confirm what most of us already know: that 
perimenopause and menopause symptoms can last for years, and can interfere with work in 

 
24 Facts Are Important: Abortion Is Healthcare, The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, 
https://www.acog.org/advocacy/facts-are-important/abortion-is-healthcare (last visited Sept. 18, 2023).  
25 Jeff Diamant & Besheer Mohamed, What the Data Says About Abortion in the U.S., Pew Research Center (Jan. 
11, 2023), 
https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2023/01/11/what-the-data-says-about-abortion-in-the-u-s-2/.   
26 See H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 95-1786, at 4 (1978) (“Thus, no employer may, for example, fire or refuse to hire a 
woman simply because she has exercised her right to have an abortion.”). See also Questions and Answers on the 
Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 29 C.F.R. pt. 1604 app., Introduction (1979) (“A woman is therefore protected 
against such practices as being fired, or refused a job or promotion, merely because she is pregnant or has had an 
abortion.”).  
27 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination and Related 
Issues (2015), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-pregnancy-discrimination-and-related-
issues#IA4a.  
28 Questions and Answers on the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 29 C.F.R. pt. 1604 app., question 35 (1979). 
29 88 Fed. Reg. 54774 & n.11 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
30 34 C.F.R. § 106.57(b),(c); see also 34 CFR § 106.51(b)(6) (prohibiting discrimination in “[g]ranting and return 
from leaves of absence, leave for pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy….”). 

 

 
 

10 
 



myriad ways.31 Like menstruation, like infertility, and like the use of birth control – all of which 
are specifically included in the regulation – perimenopause and menopause are related to a 
worker’s capacity for pregnancy, and their explicit inclusion will provide valuable guidance to 
employers and the millions of affected workers.  
 
Known Limitation  
 
We applaud the proposed rule for making clear that a “limitation” can be “modest, minor, and/or 
episodic.”32 We also appreciate that the EEOC set out principles that reflect the realities of how 
employees – who are rarely trained in law– typically communicate their needs to an employer 
and suggest some further clarification to the definition.  
 
1636.3(c): PWFA is clear that a “representative” of the employee or applicant, such as a family 
member, friend, or health care provider, can communicate the employee’s limitation and need for 
accommodation on the employee’s behalf.33 We suggest the EEOC add “union representative”  
to this list. The EEOC should make clear, however, that third parties must have an employee’s 
consent to communicate the employee’s limitation and need for accommodation, and that once 
the third party has made the covered entity aware of the employee’s need for accommodation, 
the employer must engage in the interactive process directly with the employee who is in need of 
accommodation and their union representative.    
 
Undue Hardship  
 
As the Commission recognizes, the overall burden of pregnancy- and childbirth- related 
accommodations on employers at any given time is quite small, even in a heavily female 
profession like teaching. In fact, quoting National Women’s Law Center President & CEO, 
Fatima Goss Graves: ‘‘For example, pregnant women are most likely to work as elementary 
school teachers and middle school teachers, but only 3.2 percent of all elementary and middle 
school teachers are pregnant in a given year.”34 This is to say that there is minimal cost to a 
school district employer to accommodate individual educators during a temporary, relatively 
short period of time, particularly when the benefit is that the educator may remain in a workforce 
that is experiencing critical shortages.  
 
With respect to section 1636.3(j)(4) of the rule, we support the proposed rule’s explanation of 
“predictable assessments,” meaning examples of accommodations requested by employees due 

 
31 See, e.g., Stephanie S. Faubion, et al., Impact of Menopause Symptoms on Women in the Workplace, 98 Mayo 
Clinic Proc. 833 (2023) (among study participants, roughly 15 percent had either missed work or reduced their hours 
because of menopause symptoms, with Black women and Latinas reporting the worst symptoms and adverse work 
outcomes); Carrot Fertility, Menopause in the Workplace (Sept. 27, 2022), https://content.get-carrot.com/rs/418-
PQJ-171/images/Carrot%20-%20Menopause%20in%20the%20workplace.pdf (20 percent of study participants 
reported losing work hours because of menopause symptoms, and 70 percent had considered some form of work 
change, such as switching to a part-time schedule or retiring early, due to menopause symptoms). 
32 88 Fed. Reg. 54767.  
33  42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).  
34 88 Fed. Reg. 54717, n.35 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
 

11 
 



to pregnancy that will, in nearly all instances, not be considered to impose an undue hardship. 
This is because many pregnancy- and childbirth-related limitations are temporary, common, and 
predictable and require only “simple and straightforward” workplace adjustments.  
 
In particular, we appreciate the Commission’s inclusion of an example that is all too familiar to 
many NEA members: a pregnant teacher’s need for additional bathroom breaks.35 We commend 
the Commission for recognizing that the employer’s argument that finding another adult to watch 
over the classroom for the teacher to take a short bathroom break does not impose an undue 
hardship when, for example, “there are several teachers with nearby classrooms, some 
classrooms have aides, and there is an administrative assistant who works in the front office, and 
that with a few minutes’ notice, one of them would either be able to either stand in the hallway 
between classes to allow Jazmin a trip to the bathroom or, in the case of the administrative 
assistant, sit in the teacher’s classroom for a few minutes several times a day.”36 By calling out 
this common example as a “predictable assessment,” the proposed rule makes clear that pregnant 
and postpartum educators should not have to fight for or go without something as basic as 
needed bathroom breaks.  
 
The Commission seeks comment on whether more accommodations should be included under 
this category. We urge the EEOC to 1) make clear that predictable assessments with respect to 
undue hardship should be extended to also include accommodations requested due to childbirth 
and related medical conditions; and 2) add the following accommodations to the list of 
predictable assessments: 
 

• Modifications to uniforms or dress code.  
• Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair.  
• Allowing rest breaks, as needed.  
• Moving a workstation, such as to be closer to a bathroom or lactation space, or away 

from toxins.  
• Providing personal protective equipment.  
• Access to closer parking. 
• Eating or drinking at a workstation. 
• Time off to attend 16 healthcare appointments related to pregnancy or childbirth. 

 
In conclusion, we applaud the EEOC for its comprehensive proposed rule on the Pregnant 
Workers Fairness Act, which fairly balances the interest of employers with the interest of 
employees to protect their pregnancy and reproductive health without compromising their health 
or their family’s economic security. The dedicated educators of the NEA welcome the EEOC’s 

 
35 88 Fed. Reg. 54734-35, 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023). See also id. at 54723 (recognizing that “[a] teacher recovering 
from childbirth who needs additional bathroom breaks will be qualified with a reasonable accommodation that 
allows for such breaks”); id. at 54751, citing Wadley v. Kiddie Acad. Int’l, Inc., 2018 WL 3035785, at *4 (E.D. Pa. 
June 19, 2018) (discussing the gaps left by Title VII which necessitated the protections of the PWFA, including 
where there may not always be similarly situated employees, and as a result, pregnant people end up being denied 
“simple common-sense accommodations” such as “bathroom breaks for a preschool teacher.”)  
36 88 Fed. Reg. 54734-35, 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
 

12 
 



strong support for pregnant and postpartum workers who should be able to continue to do the 
jobs they love while also maintaining their health and the health of their pregnancies. Thank you 
for the opportunity to comment on the proposed regulation.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 

Daaiyah Bilal-Threats  
Senior Director, Education Policy and Implementation Center (EPIC) 
National Education Association 

 
 
 

Alice O’Brien 
General Counsel 
National Education Association  

 
13