

Raymond Windmiller Executive Officer Executive Secretariat
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 131 M Street NE
Washington, DC 20507

Submitted via regulations.gov

RE: RIN 3046-AB30, Regulations to Implement the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act

Dear Mr. Windmiller:

The National Partnership for Women & Families appreciates the opportunity to comment in support of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's (EEOC's) proposed regulations and enforcement guidance implementing the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (PWFA). As an organization that was heavily involved in drafting the PWFA and helped lead the coalition that successfully fought for its passage, we have a strong understanding of the history, details and legislative intent informing the law and are deeply invested in ensuring that the promise of the law is fulfilled. The National Partnership strongly supports the proposed rule, which provides a comprehensive set of protections that are firmly grounded in the text of the PWFA, decades of legal and regulatory history interpreting preceding federal protections for pregnant workers such as the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA), and the lived experiences of pregnant and birthing workers. In addition, this comment includes suggestions for modest changes to the rule that we believe will provide greater clarity and further reflect the purpose of the PWFA.

The National Partnership for Women & Families is a nonprofit, nonpartisan advocacy group that has worked for more than 50 years to advance every major public policy impacting the lives of women and families, including the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 (PDA) and the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). The National Partnership works for a just and equitable society in which all women and families can live with dignity, respect, and security; every person has the opportunity to achieve their potential; and no person is held back by discrimination or bias. We believe that fair labor and employment practices are critical to women's ability to succeed and thrive in our economy and to building an economy that benefits workers, businesses and the nation as a whole.

I. Interaction with the Americans with Disabilities Act

All workers stand to benefit from the PWFA, but the law is especially significant for disabled women workers. Disabled people often experience disability discrimination in hiring, firing, promotion and other employment decisions, including difficulty receiving or being denied reasonable accommodations in the workplace.1 This discrimination is compounded for disabled women - and disabled women of color in particular - as they may


1875 connecticut avenue, nw ~ suite 650 ~ washington, dc 20009 ~ phone: 202.986.2600 ~ fax: 202.986.2539 email: info@nationalpartnership.org ~ web: www.nationalpartnership.org

face additional forms of discrimination on top of disability discrimination. Disabled women also face unique forms of harassment stemming from their combined experiences as both
people with disabilities and women.2

As a result of occupational segregation - the phenomenon in which women, people of color, disabled people and other marginalized people are funneled into and concentrated in low- paying, undervalued occupations - disabled people are more likely to work in lower-wage jobs, and disabled women in particular are more likely to work part time or in service positions.3 These positions are often physically demanding and involve a great deal of movement, standing and lifting; for example, four of the ten most common occupations for disabled women are nurse, nursing assistant, personal care aide and primary school teacher.4

Disabled people also experience additional costs associated with being disabled, requiring about $17,960 of additional income per year for a household at a median income level.
Many of these costs can be attributed to additional hurdles and needs many disabled people must meet in order to be able to travel to and perform work. These expenses may include durable medical equipment, additional transportation needs, additional medical care costs and other costs that may not be incurred by nondisabled employees.5

The combination of these factors - discrimination, low-paid and physically demanding jobs, additional costs from disability and possible need for multiple accommodations - makes it imperative that the proposed rule and guidance give careful consideration to the burdens disabled women may face when seeking pregnancy accommodations.

We support the proposed regulation's definition of "related medical conditions" as "medical conditions which relate to, are affected by, or arise out of pregnancy or childbirth [emphasis added]." We particularly commend the inclusion of conditions that are affected by pregnancy, which recognizes the fact that an employee might need accommodations to mitigate an existing condition, chronic illness or disability that is aggravated by pregnancy or childbirth. However, in accordance with the PWFA's requirement for the EEOC to provide specific examples of accommodations, it may be helpful for the EEOC to include more examples in the guidance that explicitly address the interaction between pregnancy accommodations and existing disabilities or conditions. For example, an employee with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) that is exacerbated by morning sickness should be allowed to take longer lunch breaks to avoid triggering an IBS flare-up. EEOC should also include examples of accommodations that may be provided for disabilities or conditions that are aggravated because the employee had to discontinue their usual treatment or medication due to pregnancy. For example, an employee who has to stop taking their usual medication for ADHD while pregnant should be eligible for accommodations related to any ADHD symptoms they experience, in addition to any other pregnancy or disability accommodations they may need.

We also recommend that the EEOC make it clear that a disabled worker's previous receipt of accommodations under the ADA should be neither a barrier nor a prerequisite for receiving accommodations under the PWFA. For example, an employee seeking accommodation under the PWFA for a condition that is aggravated by pregnancy or childbirth should be entitled to accommodation regardless of whether they have already received ADA accommodations related to that condition.

II. Religious Exemption

The PWFA includes a rule of construction clarifying that the PWFA "is subject to the applicability to religious employment set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964...". Section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act clarifies that Title VII's religious discrimination prohibition does not apply to the ability of religious organizations whose purpose and character are primarily religious to exercise a preference for employing individuals of its own religion for work connected with the carrying out of its activities. However, it does not shield employers from discrimination claims based on other protected characteristics.6 Courts have consistently read this exception narrowly as applying only to religious discrimination with respect to the employment of co-religionists, and have repeatedly declined to extend it beyond that context.7

This narrow scope is also supported by the legislative history of the PWFA. During the debate over PWFA's passage, the lead House sponsor of the PWFA, Representative Nadler, explained that, "[b]y affirming the continued applicability of 702(a), the rule of construction allows religious institutions to continue to prefer coreligionists in the pregnancy accommodation context." He noted that the rule of construction differs from a previous amendment rejected by the House that would have created religious exemptions that go far beyond the section 702(a) rule of construction.8 Religious exemption amendments were considered and rejected in both the 116th and 117th Congress - a clear indication of congressional intent.9 In addition, the narrow judicial interpretation of section 702(a) goes back decades, and had been reaffirmed by a District Court just one year prior to passage, meaning that Congress would have been aware of its limited scope when drafting and debating the PWFA.10 This provides even more support for the assertion that Congress intended to construe this provision extremely narrowly.

In response to the EEOC's question about whether the public would benefit from a more detailed interpretation of the rule of construction, we strongly believe it would. Specifically, we urge the EEOC to clarify that the rule of construction only applies to employers' ability to exercise preference for co-religionists, but does not exempt them from the obligation to provide reasonable accommodations absent undue hardship. EEOC should also clarify that the rule of construction does not afford employers the right to deny workers an accommodation based on religious belief or any other characteristic protected under Title
VII. In the context of PWFA, one example of the type of scenario in which the section 702(a) rule of construction might apply is one in which an employee of a different religious affiliation is seeking light duty as an accommodation in the form of a temporary reassignment to the role of sharing religious literature with worshippers. In this case, the rule of construction may allow the employer to hire a co-religionist for the role rather than making it available to the pregnant worker as an accommodation. However, the employer would still be obligated to engage in the interactive process with the pregnant worker to determine whether another accommodation exists that would address the worker's limitation.

In response to the EEOC's set of questions about the scope of the rule of construction, we strongly discourage the EEOC from adopting a broader exemption that would construe the PWFA as not requiring religious entities to make any accommodation that would conflict

with their religion. This interpretation has no textual support in the PWFA and, as discussed above, actively goes against the legislative history, as evidenced by Rep. Nadler's floor statement, the legislature's explicit rejection of amendments that would create such an exemption, and the choice to reference an exemption that had already been interpreted by the courts.11 Moreover, maintaining the limited scope of this exemption is of vital importance not only for the protections afforded by the PWFA, but for all federal, state and local anti-discrimination laws. Broadening the exemption would set a precedent that religious objections can serve as an escape hatch from civil rights obligations.

III. Reasonable Accommodations

We appreciate the EEOC's detailed discussion of reasonable accommodations, which reflects the range of accommodations workers impacted by pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions need to remain healthy and continue earning an income. We suggest three ways the Commission can better emphasize that a reasonable accommodation includes modifications or adjustments to alleviate pain and discomfort and to avoid health risks.

In section 1636.3(i), we urge the EEOC to provide an additional example of reasonable accommodation:

1636.3(i)(6): Modifications that alleviate pain or discomfort and reduce health risks for the employee or applicant or their pregnancy.

We appreciate the EEOC's highlighting in the proposed appendix the critical nature of accommodations that alleviate increased pain and health risks.12 Adding this language to section 1636.3(i), along with more specific examples in the appendix, will help clarify for employers that reducing pain, discomfort and risk are valid reasons for an accommodation.

Employers have historically denied pregnant workers accommodations due to a lack of "evidence" of a measurable and diagnosable complication, and many healthcare providers believe they are not allowed to recommend accommodations without the same evidence.13 Highlighting the law's purpose as it relates to risk and pain avoidance, therefore, is critical. This is especially true for women of color, who are more likely both to work in physically demanding jobs,14 and to have their employers and healthcare providers underestimate their pain and apply higher levels of risk tolerance toward them.15

Additionally, we strongly urge the EEOC to delete the following language in 1636.3(i)(2):

1636.3.(i)(2): [...] adjustments to allow an employee or applicant to work without increased pain or increased risk to the employee's or applicant's health or the health of the employee's or applicant's pregnancy due to the employee's or applicant's known limitation [...].

This language is unnecessary. No other example in the paragraph contains such a clause, and everything in the paragraph is necessarily qualified by a link to a known limitation. Treating this category of accommodation differently may create confusion about the legal standard by suggesting that the employee or applicant must make some additional showing.

Finally, we suggest adding to the proposed appendix the following examples of reasonable accommodation to alleviate increased pain and discomfort or to avoid increased risk to health: 1) a farmworker being temporarily transferred to an indoor position to avoid the risks of falling in a slippery field and exposure to toxic pesticides, (2) a secretary experiencing pelvic pain being allowed to work remotely to alleviate pain that would be exacerbated by the commute and sitting upright all day; (3) a warehouse worker being given a portable cooling device to avoid pregnancy risks from excessive heat; and (4) a security guard being temporarily reassigned from nighttime to daytime shifts to avoid increased fatigue and the health risks (miscarriage and preterm birth) associated with working at night.

We commend the Commission's thoughtful treatment of leave as a reasonable accommodation and suggest modifications. PWFA's purpose could not be realized without access to leave as an accommodation. The most at-risk workers have zero sick days and are ineligible for FMLA. For them, before PWFA's passage, taking a few days off to attend health care appointments put them at risk of being terminated with little recourse or consequence. While the U.S. desperately needs a comprehensive paid family and medical leave program, leave provided as an accommodation under PWFA will provide a lifeline to many who would have otherwise been fired for seeking basic medical care or taking time to recover from childbirth. Further, leave as a PWFA accommodation will protect the employment of the many workers who have access to state-administered paid leave, but previously had inadequate job protection.

We suggest two modifications to the proposed rule regarding leave as an accommodation in 1636.3(i)(3). In its discussion on leave, the Commission notes one potential accommodation as "The ability to choose whether to use paid leave ... or unpaid leave to the extent that the covered entity allows employees using leave not related to pregnancy... to choose..." 1636.3(i)(3)(iii). We respectfully suggest that, under PWFA, whether these potential accommodations should be provided turns on the question of undue hardship, not on how other employees are treated. As with all accommodations, employers may be obligated to modify standard practices to accommodate people with limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, even if a particular benefit is not routinely offered to other employees.16 Accordingly, we urge the EEOC to modify its treatment of these leave- related accommodations by deleting the comparative reference to other employees.17 The suggested regulation would read:

1636.3(i)(3)(iii): The ability to choose whether to use paid leave (accrued, short-term disability or another employer benefit) or unpaid leave to the extent that the covered entity allows employees using leave not related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions to choose between the use of paid leave (accrued, short-term disability, or another employer benefit) and unpaid leave[.]

Similarly, the Commission notes in the proposed appendix that "an employer must continue an employee's health insurance benefits during their leave period to the extent that it does so for other employees in a similar leave status." Fed. Reg. 54780-81. As in the regulation, we suggest that the EEOC delete the comparative reference to other employees.

Additionally, we strongly urge the Commission to add the following to the list of potential leave-related accommodations that must be provided absent undue hardship:

       1636.3(i)(3)(v): Continuation of health insurance benefits during the period of leave.

For many workers, the opportunity to access leave as a reasonable accommodation is hollow without continuation of health benefits, as access to uninterrupted healthcare is vital during pregnancy and the postpartum period.18 This interpretation is supported by the intent of the PWFA,19 which not only has the goal of continued employment, but also the goal of promoting maternal and child health.20 Indeed, the House report on the PWFA clearly stated that pregnant people "want, and oftentimes need, to keep working during their pregnancies, both for income and to retain health insurance."21 The reasonableness of providing continued health insurance benefits during a period of leave is also supported by the FMLA requirement that employers do so for up to 12 weeks every year,22 as well as state laws that require continued health benefits during leave taken for pregnancy or other health reasons.23

We urge the Commission to expand the examples of reasonable accommodation for lactation. We appreciate the EEOC's highlighting the reasonable accommodations often needed by lactating workers who are pumping milk. While we wholeheartedly celebrate the recent passage of the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act, that law is limited to providing reasonable break time and private space for only one year following the birth of an employee's child.24 However, many lactating employees require other reasonable accommodations, including the pumping accommodations identified by the Commission in 1636.3(i)(4)(ii), as well as accommodations that are unrelated to pumping. We encourage the Commission to highlight some of these other lactation accommodations by adding a new section:

1636.3(i)(4)(iii): Any other job modification, including those identified in 1636.3(i)(2), that would remove barriers to producing or expressing human milk, breastfeeding, or chestfeeding; avoid or alleviate lactation-related health complications; or reduce the risk of contaminating human milk produced by the employee.

We recommend the following changes to the proposed appendix regarding 1) penalizing employees for utilizing accommodations; and 2) compliance with production standards:

a. The Commission seeks comment on whether there are other situations where ordinary workplace policies operate to penalize employees for using reasonable accommodations. We suggest highlighting that the application to pregnant people of "no-fault" attendance/tardy control policies may cause employers to violate PWFA as such policies are applied universally without consideration of individual circumstances. For example, an employee using a flexible scheduling accommodation due to morning sickness may be automatically penalized under a "no-fault" attendance policy.25

b. Additionally, with regard to production standards and quotas, the Commission notes that under the ADA, "a reasonable accommodation cannot excuse an employee from

complying with valid production standards that are applied uniformly to all employees."26 We encourage the Commission to recognize that this principle is grounded in the ADA's requirement that employees must be able to perform the essential functions of the job, with or without a reasonable accommodation, to be qualified. Indeed, the cited Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation cites to the ADA's definition of "essential functions" for support. In the PWFA context, because the statutory language specifically discusses how essential job functions can be temporarily suspended, so too must any production standards associated with suspended functions. Therefore, we respectfully ask the EEOC to delete this reference to the ADA citation, or alternatively, note that it differs in the PWFA context. We also ask the Commission to consider adding to the section in the proposed appendix on ensuring workers are not penalized for using accommodations an example of a situation where an employee is excused from a production standard that was not met because of the temporary suspension of an essential function.

IV. Related Medical Conditions

A. Abortion

We strongly support the EEOC's factually correct definition of "related medical conditions" to include termination of pregnancy, including via miscarriage, stillbirth or abortion. This is fully in line with the text and legislative history of the PWFA. The text of the PWFA does not exclude any specific condition, limitation or procedure from the scope of conditions that may need accommodation. If the sponsors of the law had intended to exclude abortion from the definition of related medical conditions, they would have done so explicitly.

The inclusion of abortion is also consistent with longstanding law and legislative history surrounding the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA), a forerunner of the PWFA and the first law explicitly aimed at protecting the rights of pregnant and birthing people in the workplace. The PDA's enforcement guidance specifies that the law's prohibition against pregnancy discrimination includes discrimination against an employee for having an abortion27 - an interpretation that has been consistently upheld by the courts. The PDA guidance also states that, other than health insurance coverage, fringe benefits like paid sick days must be provided for abortions if they are provided for other medical conditions.28 And even the insurance coverage exclusion still requires health insurance coverage for abortions where the life of the mother is endangered and for medical conditions arising from abortion.29

Furthermore, including pregnancy termination within the scope of "pregnancy or related conditions" is consistent with longstanding interpretations of other civil rights statutes, such as Title IX and Title VII.30

Some commenters have attempted to misconstrue the legislative record to support their claim that accommodations for abortion are not covered by the law. Namely, they point to a statement from a bill sponsor that the law does not mandate leave for abortion.31 However, the sponsor's immediate next sentence makes it clear that he is referring to the fact that PWFA does not mandate any specific accommodation because the accommodations must be determined in each individual case based on the needs of each worker and employer.32 This is consistent with the language of the law, as well as how the ADA has been implemented

through its interactive process for the last 32 years. Employers should be familiar with this individualized determination process.

Abortion is a common medical experience, with about 1 in 4 women in the United States having an abortion by age 45.33 Historically, denials of care or accommodations related to abortion are a direct result of abortion stigma - in other words, the universal misperception that abortion is an immoral act as opposed to a personal medical decision or necessary medical intervention.34 While abortion care is incredibly safe,35 people may nevertheless need accommodations as a result of such care, as they would for any other essential health care needs arising from or related to pregnancy.

Furthermore, as with all other medical conditions under the PWFA, people seeking accommodations because of pregnancy termination are entitled to privacy regarding their health information. This is especially important in the post-Dobbs landscape, where people seeking (and providing) abortion care are subject to heightened risks of surveillance and criminalization.36 Health and health-related data - both that which is HIPAA-covered and that which is not - is vulnerable to being weaponized against people who have had or are seeking abortion care in state prosecutions.37 As discussed in the "Medical Certification - Reasonable Documentation" section of this comment below, employees should never be required to disclose the specific diagnosis or procedure giving rise to the need for accommodation, apart from confirming that it is pregnancy-related, because such information is not relevant to determining the accommodation. However, if the employer does receive any information regarding pregnancy termination (for example, if the employee otherwise discloses such information), the employer must take measures to ensure the confidentiality and security of the information.

B. Menstrual Cycles

We also applaud the EEOC's inclusion of "menstrual cycles" as a "related medical condition" that employers are obligated to accommodate. Our reproductive lives last for decades, and our needs will differ at various points during those years, not to mention from pregnancy to pregnancy. Consistent with that reality, we urge the agency to add perimenopause and menopause to the list of "related medical conditions." While we recognize that the list of examples is non-exhaustive, and that both of these conditions fall within a reasonable construction of "menstrual cycles," the documented dismissiveness perimenopausal and menopausal women face from their employers demands making those conditions' inclusion explicit. Recent studies confirm what most of us already know: that perimenopause and menopause symptoms can last for years, and can interfere with work in myriad ways.38 Like menstruation, like infertility, and like the use of birth control - all of which are specifically included in the regulation - perimenopause and menopause are related to a worker's capacity for pregnancy, and their explicit inclusion will provide valuable guidance to employers and the millions of affected workers.

V. Medical Certification

We appreciate the EEOC's seeking comment on the issue of medical certification, which is of vital importance to individuals seeking accommodations under the PWFA. As the EEOC recognizes in the proposed appendix, many workers face barriers in obtaining appointments with health care providers in a timely way (or at all), which poses significant barriers to

obtaining medical documentation.39 This is especially true for workers in rural areas and low-wage workers who may not have consistent access to health care and disproportionately lack control over their work schedules.40 Women generally may struggle to secure documentation for medical conditions related to pregnancy and birthing; bias leads women more likely to be misdiagnosed or dismissed.41 Furthermore, women of color, particularly Black women, often face medical racism that may inhibit or delay their ability to secure supporting documentation.42 And according to a 2021 study, only 56.5 percent of physicians surveyed welcomed disabled patients to their practice, and only 40.7 percent of the physicians surveyed were very confident in their ability to treat disabled
patients.43 LGBTQI+ patients also face widespread mistreatment from medical providers, and this is particularly true for LGBTQI+ patients of color, LGBTQI+ disabled patients and transgender patients. A nationally representative survey from the Center for American Progress fielded in 2022 found nearly 1 in 3 transgender respondents encountered some form of refusal of health care from a provider in the year prior and 30 percent of LGBQ respondents reported encountering at least one form of mistreatment by health care providers in the year prior.44 Finally, seeing a doctor can be expensive, particularly for uninsured or underinsured workers. Additionally, some medical care providers impose fees to fill out forms, which can grow to significant amounts over time, as needs change and as employers request new or different documentation.45

The lack of paid sick time, which workers need in order to attend medical appointments without losing out on critical wages, poses a direct barrier to obtaining documentation. Nearly 28 million private sector workers (equaling almost a quarter of the private sector workforce) lack access to paid sick time.46 Access is especially low for workers in the lowest paid jobs, only 39 percent of whom have paid sick time through their employers, and workers in service jobs, only 61 percent of whom have access.47 Many of these low-wage and service jobs are also more likely to be physically demanding, increasing the need for pregnancy accommodations.

The framework around supporting documentation that the EEOC lays out in the proposed regulations and guidance includes several elements that strike the right balance between the needs of employees and employers. However, as discussed below, the lack of clarity in certain provisions leaves the door open for employer documentation requirements that could impose unnecessary financial, physical, mental and emotional burdens on workers, contribute to substantial delay in receiving reasonable accommodations, and deter workers from seeking the accommodations they need for their health and wellbeing.48

A. Reasonable Documentation

We support the proposed rule's language making clear that employers may only seek documentation supporting the need for accommodations when it is reasonable under the circumstances to determine whether to grant the accommodation. In certain circumstances, the need for accommodation will be obvious, predictable or well-established enough that additional documentation should not be necessary. When it is reasonable for an employer to request documentation, they are limited only to documentation that is 1) sufficient to describe or confirm the condition; 2) confirms the condition is related to pregnancy, childbirth or related conditions; and 3) confirms that an adjustment of work is needed.
However, we suggest certain modifications and clarifications to this provision.

First, in section 1636.3(l)(2), the EEOC should clarify and limit the circumstances under which an employer's request for documentation can require the employee to disclose the specific diagnosis or procedure that gives rise to the need for accommodation. In addition to being highly invasive and potentially deterring employees from requesting accommodations due to fear of stigma, the employee's precise condition or a description of it may not be necessary to determine the accommodation. The basis of the inquiry should be understanding the limitation giving rise to the need for accommodation, not the specific cause of the limitation (apart from confirming that it arises from pregnancy, childbirth or related conditions). For example, if a pregnant person has been prescribed bed rest, the limitation itself - a need for reduced activity and mobility - is likely to apply regardless of whether it arises from preeclampsia, bleeding or a short cervix. This is consistent with the individualized determination at the heart of the law. Similarly, medical documentation need not state that a worker needs to attend a medical appointment related to a miscarriage, but can simply state that the employee needs to attend a medical appointment during the workday (the limitation) due to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition, and thus a modified start time (the accommodation) is recommended.

We urge the EEOC to make clear in the proposed rule or proposed appendix that employers cannot require employees to submit any particular medical certification form, so long as the health care provider documents the requisite three pieces of information, as explained immediately above. Additionally, we urge the EEOC to make clear that employers cannot require employees to complete ADA or FMLA certification forms in order to receive a PWFA accommodation, as such forms seek substantially more information than is "reasonable" under PWFA. In addition, we urge the EEOC to clarify that under no circumstances may an employer require an employee to take any sort of test to confirm their pregnancy and that self-attestation of pregnancy is sufficient.

B. Straightforward Accommodation Requests

We applaud the agency for making clear in section 1636.3(l)(1)(iii) that employers cannot seek supporting documentation for certain straightforward accommodation requests.49 We urge the EEOC to expand the list in 1636.3(l)(1)(iii) to also include:50
* Time off, up to 8 weeks, to recover from childbirth51
* Time off to attend healthcare appointments related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions, including, at minimum, at least 16 healthcare appointments52
* Flexible scheduling or remote work for nausea or bleeding
* Modifications to uniforms or dress code
* Allowing rest breaks, as needed
* Eating or drinking at a workstation
* Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair
* Moving a workstation, such as to be closer to a bathroom or lactation space, or away from toxins
* Providing personal protective equipment
* Reprieve from lifting over 20 pounds
* Access to closer parking

VI. Undue Hardship

As laid out in the statute, the regulations and guidance around what constitutes "undue hardship" for the employer are largely parallel to the definition of that term under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Undue hardship is defined as significant difficulty or expense in providing the accommodation, considering such factors as cost, financial resources, number of employees, type of operations, structure and functions of the workforce, location and impact on individual business operations and other employees' ability to perform their duties. Because employers should already be familiar with the terms used in the ADA and have processes in place for ADA accommodation requests, this similar definition will allow employers to build on existing processes and ease compliance. Any differences between these regulations and the ADA regulations are wholly in line with the purpose of the PWFA.

A. Predictable Assessments

We support the proposed rule's explanation of "predictable assessments," meaning examples of accommodations that will in nearly all instances be considered as not imposing an undue hardship. This is based on the fact that some pregnancy- and childbirth-related limitations are very common and predictable and require only "simple and straightforward" workplace adjustments.

The Commission seeks comment on whether more accommodations should be included under this category. In response, we urge the EEOC to 1) make clear that predictable assessments with respect to undue hardship should be extended to also include accommodations requested due to childbirth and related medical conditions; and 2) add the following accommodations to the list of predictable assessments in section 1636.3(j)(4):

* Modifications to uniforms or dress code
* Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair
* Allowing rest breaks, as needed
* Moving a workstation, such as to be closer to a bathroom or lactation space, or away from toxins
* Providing personal protective equipment
* Access to closer parking
* Eating or drinking at a workstation
* Time off to attend 16 healthcare appointments related to pregnancy or childbirth

The above accommodations are similar to the four accommodations the EEOC included in the proposed rule as "predictable assessments" as they, too, are simple and straightforward.

B. Impermissible Bases for Undue Hardship

We applaud the EEOC for making clear in the guidance that "a covered entity that receives numerous requests for the same or similar accommodation at the same time...cannot deny all of them simply because processing the volume of current or anticipated requests is, or would be, burdensome or because it cannot grant all of them."53 However, we urge the EEOC to remove the subsequent assertion that "[t]he covered entity may point to past and

cumulative costs or burden of accommodations that have already been granted to other employees when claiming the hardship posed by another request for the same or similar accommodation"54 and replace it with the following language: "The covered entity may not point to cumulative costs of accommodations that have already been granted to other employees when claiming the hardship. The undue hardship analysis must be done on a case by case basis."

We also encourage the Commission to add that 1) other employees' fear or prejudice regarding the employee's pregnancy, childbirth, or related condition, or; 2) the possibility that the accommodation would negatively impact other employees' morale, cannot constitute an undue hardship. These examples are similar to examples explicitly included in the ADA's Interpretive Guidance.55

Moreover, the PWFA intentionally avoided including "direct threat" language from the ADA, and the EEOC should make clear that any claims of undue hardship based on claims of direct threat are invalid.56

Finally, the fact that an employee has or has previously received an accommodation for pregnancy, disability, or both should not be a valid reason to claim undue hardship.
Allowing such claims would violate the purposes of both PWFA and the ADA by penalizing qualified employees for using the accommodations they are entitled to under the law.

VII. Temporary Excusal from Essential Functions

We thank the EEOC for the thoughtful framework it set out to determine whether an employee or applicant is qualified if they cannot perform one or more essential functions. However, in response to the EEOC's question on how "in the near future" should be defined postpartum, we recommend that the definition of "in the near future" should be extended to one year postpartum, except with respect to lactation which should be extended to two years.

The one-year timeframe for postpartum, non-lactation accommodations is supported by the EEOC's own citations to important medical findings and Medicaid extension, all of which point to the importance of one year for postpartum reasonable accommodations.57 One in three pregnancy-associated deaths occurs within one year of childbirth, which is why the extension of Medicaid postpartum coverage has been a key strategy to reduce the maternal mortality crisis.58 Moreover, the national Listening to Mothers survey has found that a range of new-onset maternal morbidities experienced shortly after birth persist in many cases to six months or more.59 Maternal mental health conditions, including depression and anxiety, are widely considered to be the most common complication of childbearing, both during pregnancy and after childbirth; and while generally treatable, most presently go untreated, with the potential for long-term, multigenerational adverse consequences.60 Medicaid extension is associated with an increase in prenatal care and has contributed to lower maternal mortality rates who have expanded coverage up to one year.61

Allowing a temporary excusal of an essential function for generally one year postpartum is critical for maternal and infant health. It is especially important for pregnant people who

are at a higher risk, including Black women, who are three times as likely to die of pregnancy-related causes than white women.62 This is also the case for disabled women, who are eleven times more likely to face maternal mortality than nondisabled women.63

In addition to extending the definition of "in the near future" to one year following childbirth, we urge the Commission to extend it to two years for lactation-related accommodations. The American Association of Pediatrics recommends that parents feed breast milk for at least two years following childbirth for both maternal and infant health, and that workplaces institute policies that protect and enable parents to express milk at work.64 Apart from these two recommendations, we believe the general approach adopted by the Commission comports with the PWFA's statutory language, legislative intent, and the real life experiences of pregnant and postpartum workers.

We support the proposed rule's framework of restarting the time frame for excusing an essential function, precisely for the reasons stated in the proposed appendix - that pregnant workers very often cannot possibly anticipate what needs or limitations may occur postpartum. The same may be true during pregnancy itself, and thus, each accommodation request should be considered based on specific "limitation" at issue. We strongly urge the EEOC to state in the regulation the principle found in the appendix that the timeframe restarts with each new accommodation request and following return from childbirth leave.

VIII. Unnecessary Delay

We applaud the EEOC for making clear that employer delay in responding to accommodation requests "may result in a violation of the PWFA."65 Too often employers delay providing accommodations for weeks or even months. Delays can often adversely impact the health of workers and/or the health of their pregnancies, a concern that the PWFA was meant to address. To ensure workers are able to get the accommodations they need without unnecessary delay, we recommend the EEOC make certain changes to the proposed rule and proposed appendix:

A. Definition of "Unnecessary Delay"

We applaud the EEOC for recognizing that unnecessary delay may result in a failure-to- accommodate violation. However, we urge the EEOC to clarify that unnecessary delays at any point during the accommodation process may result in violation, not just delays in "responding to a reasonable accommodation request." To that end, we recommend the EEOC add the following language to 1636.4(a)(1) (suggested addition in bold text):

1636.4(a)(1): An unnecessary delay in responding to a reasonable accommodation request, engaging in the interactive process, or providing a reasonable accommodation may result in a violation of the PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg-1(1), even if the covered entity eventually provides the reasonable accommodation.

This will clarify that employers cannot avoid a violation simply by providing an initial response to the employee's request, but must instead avoid delay during the entirety of the accommodation process.

We agree that covered entities should provide interim accommodations during the interactive process if the employee's original accommodation request cannot be immediately granted. However, providing an interim accommodation should not excuse "unnecessary delay" if employers proceed to delay the provision of the ultimate accommodation the worker requests and needs. We therefore recommend that the EEOC remove the following language:

1636.4(a)(1)(vi): Whether the covered entity offered the employee or applicant an interim reasonable accommodation during the interactive process or while waiting for the covered entity's response. If an interim reasonable accommodation is offered, delay by the covered entity is more likely to be excused.

We appreciate the EEOC's inclusion of a variety of factors to be considered when evaluating unnecessary delay. We recommend the EEOC add one additional factor to the list:

1636.4(a)(1)(vii): The urgency of the requested accommodation.

In some cases, pregnant people who do not receive immediate relief can face tragic consequences, such as employees who are denied permission to seek emergency medical care, and as a result, experience pregnancy complications or loss.66 This additional factor speaks to the importance of immediacy when it comes to providing accommodations under the PWFA and will better assist the EEOC and courts in evaluating whether an unnecessary delay has occurred."67

B. Unnecessary Delay in the Interactive Process

We respectfully ask the EEOC to add a sentence to the definition of Interactive Process as follows (suggested addition in bold text):

1636.3(k): (k) Interactive process means an informal, interactive process between the covered entity and the employee or applicant seeking an accommodation under the PWFA. This process should identify the known limitation and the change or adjustment at work that is needed, if either of these are not clear from the request, and potential reasonable accommodations. There are no rigid steps that must be followed. Unnecessary delay, as defined in § 1634.4(a)(1), in the interactive process may result in a violation of the PWFA.

The proposed appendix already recognizes the importance of expediency in carrying out the interactive process, stating "a covered entity should respond expeditiously to a request for reasonable accommodation and act promptly to provide the reasonable accommodation." (emphasis added).68 The regulation itself should underscore this directive by making clear that unnecessarily delaying the interactive process may result in a violation of the PWFA.

We also request that the EEOC add an example in the proposed appendix that illustrates how quickly and informally the interactive process can occur . For example, the EEOC can include a scenario where an employee makes a simple request of her immediate supervisor, and her immediate supervisor agrees on the spot to make the requested change.

C. Interim Accommodations

We recommend that EEOC add a definition of "interim accommodation" to the section of the rule defining reasonable accommodations. Providing employers a clear understanding of the meaning of the term "interim accommodation" will encourage them to rely on such accommodations to avoid delay. To that end, we suggest adding a new subsection that reads:

1636.3(h)(6): Interim Reasonable Accommodation means any temporary or short- term measure put in place immediately or as soon as possible after the employee requests an accommodation that allows the employee to continue working safely and comfortably while the employer and employee engage in the interactive process or the employer implements a reasonable accommodation arrived at through the interactive process.

We also recommend that EEOC indicate that an interim accommodation must be provided if it fits under the category of "predictable assessments" described above.

IX. Employee's Representative

We support the EEOC's confirmation that an employee or their representative can communicate the known limitation or need for accommodation to the employer, and for mirroring the ADA by defining "representative" to include a family member, friend, health care provider or other representative of the applicant. However, to safeguard against violations of employee privacy, we urge the EEOC to clarify that the representative may only communicate this information with the employee's permission.

* * *

The National Partnership applauds the Commission for their thorough, thoughtful treatment of the PWFA and the wide array of circumstances that pregnant workers may face when seeking accommodations. We are grateful for the opportunity to provide input on the EEOC's implementation of this landmark law and look forward to future opportunities to further support these efforts. If you have any questions about this comment, please contact Vasu Reddy (vreddy@nationalpartnership.org), Senior Policy Counsel for Economic Justice at the National Partnership for Women & Families.

Sincerely,

National Partnership for Women & Families


1 See, e.g., U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2023, April 6). EEOC Sues Downtown Grand Hotel & Casino for Disability Discrimination and Retaliation [Press release]. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/eeoc-sues- downtown-grand-hotel-casino-disability-discrimination-and-retaliation; U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2023, March 30). EEOC Sues Walmart for Disability Discrimination [Press release]. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/eeoc-sues-walmart-disability-discrimination-3; U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2023, March 29). EEOC Sues Total Systems Services for Disability Discrimination and Retaliation [Press release]. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/eeoc-sues-total-systems-services-disability-discrimination-and-retaliation; U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2023, March 28). EEOC Sues Walmart for Disability Discrimination [Press release]. Retrieved 29 June 2023, from https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/eeoc-sues-walmart-disability-discrimination-2. For more examples, see U.S.


Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (n.d.). Newsroom (Search results for "disability"). Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/search?keywords=disability#view-title-table-column
2 U.N. Women. (2020). Sexual Harassment against Women with Disabilities in the World of Work and on Campus (p. 13). Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.unwomen.org/sites/default/files/Headquarters/Attachments/Sections/Library/Publications/2020/Discussion-paper- Sexual-harassment-against-women-with-disabilities-en.pdf
3 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2023, February 23). Persons with a Disability: Labor Force Characteristics - 2022 [Press release]. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/disabl.pdf
4 Mason, J., & Gallagher-Robbins, K. (2023, March). Women's Work is Undervalued, and It's Costing Us Billions. Retrieved 10 October 2023 from National Partnership for Women & Families website: https://www.nationalpartnership.org/our-work/resources/economic- justice/fair-pay/womens-work-is-undervalued.pdf
5 Ditkowsky, M. (2023, July). Systems Transformation Guide to Disability Economic Justice: Jobs and Employment. Retrieved 10 October 2023 from National Partnership for Women & Families website: https://nationalpartnership.org/wp-content/uploads/systems- transformation-guide-disability-economic-justice-jobs-employment.pdf
6 See Kennedy v. St. Joseph's Ministries, Inc., 657 F.3d 189, 192 (4th Cir. 2011) (holding that exemption "does not exempt religious organizations from Title VII's provisions barring discrimination on the basis of race, gender, or national origin"); Boyd v. Harding Acad. of Memphis, Inc., 88 F.3d 410, 413 (6th Cir. 1996) (stating that the exemption "does not ... exempt religious educational institutions with respect to all discrimination"); DeMarco v. Holy Cross High Sch., 4 F.3d 166, 173 (2d Cir. 1993) ("religious institutions that otherwise qualify as 'employer[s]' are subject to Title VII provisions relating to discrimination based on race, gender and national origin"); Rayburn v. Gen. Conf. of Seventh-day Adventists, 772 F.2d 1164, 1166 (4th Cir. 1985) ("While the language of § 702 makes clear that religious institutions may base relevant hiring decisions upon religious preferences, Title VII does not confer upon religious organizations a license to make those same decisions on the basis of race, sex, or national origin."); cf. Garcia, 918 F.3d at 1004-5 (holding that Title VII retaliation and hostile work environment claims related to religious discrimination were barred by religious organization exception, but adjudicating disability discrimination claim on the merits).
7 Billard v. Charlotte Catholic High Sch., 3:17-cv-00011 (W.D.N.C. Sep. 3, 2021); Rayburn v. Gen. Conf., Seventh-Day Adventists, 772 F.2d 1164 (4th Cir. 1985).
8 168 Cong. Rec. H10527-28, 2022.
9 168 Cong. Rec. S10069-70, 2022; H.R. Rpt. No. 117-27, 2021, https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf; H.R.
Rpt. No. 116-494, 2020, https://www.congress.gov/116/crpt/hrpt494/CRPT-116hrpt494.pdf
10 Billard v. Charlotte Catholic High Sch., 3:17-cv-00011 (W.D.N.C. Sep. 3, 2021); Rayburn v. Gen. Conf., Seventh-Day Adventists, 772 F.2d 1164 (4th Cir. 1985).
11 168 Cong. Rec. H10527-28, 2022; 168 Cong. Rec. S10069-70, 2022; H.R. Rpt. No. 117-27, 2021; H.R. Rpt. No. 116-494, 2020.
12 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023).
13 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Committee on Obstetric Practice. (2023). ACOG Committee Opinion 733: Employment Considerations During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period. Obstetrics & Gynecology, 131, 115, 119, https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/committee-opinion/articles/2018/04/employment-considerations-during- pregnancy-and-the-postpartum-period (stating that it is generally safe to work during pregnancy without adverse effects to the pregnant person or fetus, but that accommodations are needed for workers whose jobs expose them to toxins, "very physically demanding" work, or "an increased risk of falls or injuries," as well as to address pregancy complications like gestational diabetes)
14 National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health and National Women's Law Center (2014, May). Accommodating Pregnancy On the Job: The Stakes for Women of Color and Immigrant Women. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://nwlc.org/wp- content/uploads/2015/08/the_stakes_for_woc_final.pdf
15 Taylor, J., Novoa, C., & Hamm, K. (2019, May). Eliminating Racial Disparities in Maternal and Infant Mortality. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from Center for American Progress website: https://www.americanprogress.org/article/eliminating-racial-disparities-maternal- infant-mortality/; Altman, M. R., Oseguera, T., McLemore, M. R., Kantrowitz-Gordon, I., Franck, L. S., & Lyndon, A. (2019, October).
Information and Power: Women of Color's Experiences Interacting with Health Care Providers in Pregnancy and Birth. Social Science & Medicine, 238, 112491. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.112491; see also Vedam, S., Stoll, K., Taiwo, T. K., Rubashkin, N., Cheyney, M., Strauss, N., McLemore, M., Cadena, M., Nethery, E., Rushton, E., Schummers, L., & Declercq, E. (2019, June 11). The Giving Voice to Mothers Study: Inequity and Mistreatment During Pregnancy and Childbirth in the United States. Reproductive Health, 16, 77. https://reproductive-health-journal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12978-019-0729-2


16 Similarly, we respectfully suggest that employers may be required to "provide reserved parking spaces" as a PWFA reasonable accommodation, even when it is not the case that "the employee is otherwise entitled to use employer provided parking." 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023).
17 Of course, if other employees receive a particular accommodation, that may be evidence of no undue hardship.
18 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. (2019). Improving Access to Maternal Health Care in Rural Communities. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.cms.gov/About-CMS/Agency-Information/OMH/equity-initiatives/rural-health/09032019-Maternal- Health-Care-in-Rural-Communities.pdf ("A lack of access to maternal health care can result in a number of negative maternal health outcomes including premature birth, low-birth weight, maternal mortality, severe maternal morbidity, and increased risk of postpartum depression")
19 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 22-24.
20 ADA guidance from 2002 states that employers must continue insurance benefits when an employee is on leave as an ADA accommodation only to the same extent they do so for other employees. See Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2002). Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text after n. 59, https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-undue-hardship-under-ada.
However, the statutory text of the ADA and its implementing regulations support the principle that providing continued health benefits during leave may be a reasonable accommodation, even if other employees do not receive the same benefit, where the continued benefits can be provided without undue hardship. The longstanding ADA principle that gives employees with disabilities an affirmative right to receive the same health insurance benefits as are provided to other employees stems from the ADA's prohibition on "limiting, segregating, or classifying a job applicant or employee in a way that adversely affects the opportunities or status of such applicant or employee because of the disability" See 42 U.S.C. § 12112; 29 C.F.R. pt. 1630 app. 1630.5 ("this part is intended to require that employees with disabilities be accorded equal access to whatever health insurance coverage the employer provides to other employees."). But this non-discrimination concept should not be conflated with the standard for providing reasonable accommodation, which does not turn on how other employees are treated. Even if the principle from the 2002 guidance were supported by the ADA, it would not be instructive in the PWFA context, given the clear legislative intent of the PWFA to promote healthy pregnancies and reproductive health and to allow employees to take leave following childbirth, all while maintaining their health insurance.
21 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 24.
22 Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. § 2614(c); 29 C.F.R. § 825.209.
23 For example, under the California Pregnancy Disability Leave Law and the California Family Rights Act, employees have a right to take up to 7 months of leave with continued health insurance benefits during pregnancy and following childbirth. Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11044(c) (employer must continue to provide health insurance benefits during 4 months of pregnancy disability leave); Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11092(c) (continued health insurance benefits for up to 12 weeks for leave taken to bond with a new child).
24 Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117-328 Division KK).
25 See, e.g., A Better Balance (2020). Misled & Misinformed: How Some U.S. Employers Use "No Fault" Attendance Policies to Trample on Workers' Rights (And Get Away With It). Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp- content/uploads/2020/06/Misled_and_Misinformed_A_Better_Balance-1-1.pdf (discussing story of pregnant worker who was terminated after leaving work to rush to the hospital due to bleeding and fearing she was miscarrying)
26 88 Fed. Reg. 54780 & n. 49 (Aug. 11, 2023) (citing Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text accompanying n. 14 (2002), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-undue-hardship-under-ada
27 Questions and Answers on the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, appendix to 29 C.F.R. pt. 1604.
28 Ibid., question 35.
29 Ibid., question 36.
30 For example, several court decisions make clear that Title VII's protection against discrimination on the basis of sex, including, "pregnancy . . . or related medical conditions" reach abortion. See, e.g., Doe v. C.A.R.S. Prot. Plus, Inc., 527 F.3d 358, 364 (3d Cir.), order clarified, 543 F.3d 178 (3d Cir. 2008); Turic v. Holland Hosp., Inc., 85 F.3d 1211 (6th Cir. 1996).
31 168 Cong. Rec. S7050, 2022.
32 Ibid.
33 Jones, R. K., & Jerman, J. (2017, November 8). Population group abortion rates and lifetime incidence of abortion: United States, 2008-2014. American Journal of Public Health, 112(9), https://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/10.2105/AJPH.2017.304042


34 Cockrill, K., Herold, S., Blanchard, K., Grossman, D., Upadhyay, U., & Baum, S. (2015, September). Address Abortion Stigma through Service Delivery: A White Paper. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from Ibis Reproductive Health website: https://www.ibisreproductivehealth.org/publications/addressing-abortion-stigma-through-service-delivery-white-paper
35 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. (n.d.). Abortion Access Fact Sheet. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.acog.org/advocacy/abortion-is-essential/come-prepared/abortion-access-fact- sheet#:~:text=Only%20about%202%25%20of%20women,than%20many%20common%20medical%20procedures
36 See, e.g., Diaz-Tello, F., & Ainsworth, S. (2023, April 12). The End of Roe and the Criminalization of Abortion: More of the Same for Too Many. Human Rights Magazine, 48(3), https://www.americanbar.org/groups/crsj/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/economic-issues-in-criminal-justice/the-end-    of-roe-and-the-criminalization-of-abortion/
37 Wright Clayton, E., Embi, P. J., & Malin, B. A. (2023, January). Dobbs and the Future of Health Data Privacy for Patients and Healthcare Organizations. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, 30(1), https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9748537/; Anandalingam, S. (2023, January 9). After Dobbs, CDT and EHI Health Framework Could Reduce Harm to People Seeking Abortions. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from Center for Democracy & Technology website: https://cdt.org/insights/after-dobbs-cdt-and-ehi-health-framework-could-reduce-harm-to-people-seeking-abortions/
38 See, e.g., Faubion, S. S., Enders, F., Hedges, M. S., Mara, K., Griffin, J. M., & Kapoor, E. (2023, June). Impact of Menopause Symptoms on Women in the Workplace. Mayo Clinic Proceedings, 98(6), https://www.mayoclinicproceedings.org/article/S0025-6196(23)00112- X/fulltext (among study participants, roughly 15 percent had either missed work or reduced their hours because of menopause symptoms, with Black women and Latinas reporting the worst symptoms and adverse work outcomes); Carrot Fertility. (2022, September 27). Menopause in the Workplace. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://content.get-carrot.com/rs/418-PQJ- 171/images/Carrot%20-%20Menopause%20in%20the%20workplace.pdf (20 percent of study participants reported losing work hours because of menopause symptoms, and 70 percent had considered some form of work change, such as switching to a part- time schedule or retiring early, due to menopause symptoms)
39 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 & n.87 (Aug. 11, 2023).
40 See, e.g., Brigance, C., Lucas, R., Jones, E., Davis, A., Oinuma M., Mishkin, K., & Henderson, Z. (2022). Nowhere to Go: Maternity Deserts Across the U.S. (5, 11). Retrieved 10 October 2023, from March of Dimes website: https://www.marchofdimes.org/sites/default/files/2022-10/2022_Maternity_Care_Report.pdf (noting that 4.7 million women live in counties with limited access to maternity care, and that half of women who live in rural communities have to travel over 30 minutes to access an obstetric hospital)
41 Katz Institute for Women's Health, Northwell Health. (n.d.). Gaslighting in women's health: No, it's not just in your head. [Blog post]. Retrieved 26 September 2023, from https://www.northwell.edu/katz-institute-for-womens-health/articles/gaslighting-in- womens-health
42 See, e.g., Chambers, B. D., Taylor, B., Nelson, T., Harrison, J., Bell, A., O'Leary, A., Arega, H. A., Hashemi, S., McKenzie-Sampson, S., Scott, K. A., Raine-Bennett, T., Jackson, A. V., Kuppermann, M., & McLemore, M. R. (2022, May). Clinicians' Perspectives on Racism and Black Women's Maternal Health. Women's Health Reports, 3(1), 476, 479, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9148644/ ("Clinicians acknowledged that racism causes and impacts the provision of inequitable care provided to Black women, highlighting Black women are often dismissed and not included as active participants in care decisions and treatment."); see also Smith Nickelson, R., Wheeler, C., Brafman, S., & Dawson, K. (2022, March). Centering the Experiences of Black Mamas in the Workplace. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from A Better Balance website: https://www.abetterbalance.org/centering-black-mamas-pwfa/ (As part of a listening session with Black birth workers and organizational leaders on the difficulties Black pregnant people experience obtaining accommodations prior to the PWFA, one participant remarked: "How do I prioritize going to the doctor's office, when it's gonna take me forever when I get there, because I'm at a public clinic, but I need this money, and I'm gonna be in there with a doctor for 10 minutes, but I spent all day trying to get those 10 minutes. Just the entry point, the access, sometimes is an issue.")
43 Iezzoni, L. I., Rao, S. R., Ressalam, J., Bolcic-Jankovic, D., Agaronnik, N. D., Donelan, K., Lagu, T., & Campbell, E. G. (2022, February 1). Physicians' Perceptions Of People With Disability And Their Health Care. Health Affairs, 40(2). Retrieved 26 September 2023, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8722582/
44 Medina, C., & Mahowald, L. (2023, January 12). Discrimination and Barriers to Well-Being: The State of the LGBTQI+ Community in 2022. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from Center for American Progress website: https://www.americanprogress.org/article/discrimination-and-barriers-to-well-being-the-state-of-the-lgbtqi-community-in-2022/
45 Danebrock, K. (2014, April 15). Charging Patients for Completing Forms. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from Cooperative of American Physicians website: https://www.capphysicians.com/articles/charging-patients-completing-forms; Society for Human Resources Management (n.d.). Can Doctors Charge Employees a Fee for Completing FMLA Certifications? https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/octorschargeeforfmlacertifications.aspx (last visited Sept.


18, 2023); see also Cohn, M. & Calefati, J. (2023, July 3). Johns Hopkins Medicine Joins National Move to Charge Patients for Messaging Their Doctor. The Baltimore Banner, https://www.thebaltimorebanner.com/community/public-health/johns-hopkins- mychart-messaging-fees-7HJ6GX7NGNE7NPYQQ7E7C5EHXE/ (discussing health care systems charging for My Chart messages)
46 Mason, J. (2023, September 21). When We Fight, We Win - Paid Sick Days and Paid Family Leave. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from National Partnership for Women & Families website: https://nationalpartnership.org/when-we-fight-we-win-paid-sick-days-and- paid-family-leave/
47 Ibid.
48 The legislative record is clear that the PWFA did not intend to include a supporting documentation framework that would be onerous for workers. For example, while the Minority Views of the House Report stated that "the bill presumably allows employers to require such documentation when the need for an accommodation is not obvious," the Majority did not incorporate that analysis.
H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 57; see also Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers' Fairness Act (H.R. 2694) Before the Subcomm. on Civil Rights Human. & Servs. of the H. Comm. on Educ. & Labor, 116th Cong. (2019) (Questions for the record submitted by Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better Balance, at 13, arguing against the inclusion of a medical documentation requirement because employers often seek medical notes as a "way to prolong having to provide a very simple or reasonable accommodation").
49 88 Fed. Reg. 54769 (Aug. 11, 2023) (stating that it is not reasonable to require supporting documentation beyond self-attestation when the accommodation is one listed as a predictable assessment or relates to lactation or pumping).
50 In New York City, employers with 4 or more employees are not permitted to ask for medical documentation for many of the accommodations on this list. Any accommodations listed here that are not on New York City's list are similarly minor in nature. See NYC Commission on Human Rights. (2021, July). NYC Commission on Human Rights Legal Enforcement Guidance on Discrimination on the Basis of Pregnancy, Childbirth, Related Medical Conditions, Lactation Accommodations, and Sexual or Reproductive Health Decisions. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.nyc.gov/assets/cchr/downloads/pdf/publications/Pregnancy_InterpretiveGuide_2021.pdf
51 See, e.g., NYC Commission on Human Rights. (2021, July). NYC Commission on Human Rights Legal Enforcement Guidance on Discrimination on the Basis of Pregnancy, Childbirth, Related Medical Conditions, Lactation Accommodations, and Sexual or Reproductive Health Decisions. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.nyc.gov/assets/cchr/downloads/pdf/publications/Pregnancy_InterpretiveGuide_2021.pdf
52 Nearly every state paid sick time law permits employers to request a healthcare provider note only if the person needs time off for 3 or more consecutive days. See A Better Balance. (2022, July 7). Know Your Rights: State and Local Paid Sick Time Laws FAQs. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.abetterbalance.org/resources/know-your-rights-state-and-local-paid-sick-time-laws/. We suggest a minimum of 16 appointments as it reflects the average number of appointments for prenatal and postnatal care for low-risk pregnancies. See Friedman Peahl, A., Heisler, M., Essenmacher, L. K., Chopra, V., Admon, L. K., & Moniz, M. H. (2020, January 18). A Comparison of International Prenatal Care Guidelines for Low-Risk Women to Inform High-Value Care. American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 222(5), 505, https://www.ajog.org/article/S0002-9378(20)30029-6/fulltext (stating that the median number of recommended prenatal care visits for a low-risk pregnancy in the United States is 12-14 visits); American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Committee on Obstetric Practice. (2018). ACOG Committee Opinion 736: Optimizing Postpartum Care. Obstetrics & Gynecology, 131(5), 140, 141 (2018),
https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/fulltext/2018/05000/acog_committee_opinion_no 736 optimizing.42.aspx (recommending at least two postpartum care appointments, with ongoing care as needed)
53 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023).
54 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023).
55 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (2002). Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text accompanying n. 117-18, https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-reasonable- accommodation-and-undue-hardship-under-ada
56 See Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers' Fairness Act (H.R. 2694) Before the Subcomm. on Civil Rights Human. & Servs. of the H. Comm. on Educ. & Labor, 116th Cong. (2019) (Questions for the record submitted by Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co- President, A Better Balance, at 12).
57 88 Fed. Reg. 54724-25 (Aug. 11, 2023).
58 Adashi, E. Y., O'Mahony, D. P., & Cohen, I. G. (2023, September 12). Maternal Mortality Crisis and Extension of Medicaid Postpartum Coverage. Journal of the American Medical Association, 330(10), https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37594892/
59 DeClercq, E. R., Sakala, C., Corry, M. P., Applebaum, S., & Herrlich, Ariel. (2013, May). Listening to Mothers III: Pregnancy and Birth. Report of the Third National U.S. Survey of Women's Childbearing Experiences. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from National Partnership


for Women & Families website: https://nationalpartnership.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/listening-to-mothers-iii-pregnancy- and-birth-2013.pdf
60 Griffen, A., McIntyre, L., Zahlaway Belsito, J., Burkhard, J., Davis, W., Kimmel, M., Stuebe, A., Clark, C., & Meltzer-Brody, S. (2021, October). Perinatal Mental Health Care in the United States: An Overview of Policies and Programs. Health Affairs, 40(10), https://www.healthaffairs.org/doi/10.1377/hlthaff.2021.00796
61 Harvey, S. M., Oakley, L. P., Gibbs, S. E., Mahakalanda, S., Luck, J., & Yoon, J. (2021). Impact of Medicaid expansion in Oregon on access to prenatal care. Preventive Medicine, 143, 106360, https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33309874/
62 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2023, April 4). Working Together to Reduce Black Maternal Mortality. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from https://www.cdc.gov/healthequity/features/maternal-mortality/index.html
63 National Institutes of Health. (2021, December 15). NIH study suggests women with disabilities have higher risk of birth complications and death. [Press Release]. Retrieved 26 September 2023, from https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-releases/nih- study-suggests-women-disabilities-have-higher-risk-birth-complications-death
64 Younger Meek, J., Noble, L., and American Academy of Pediatrics Section on Breastfeeding. (2022, June 27). Policy Statement: Breastfeeding and the Use of Human Milk. Pediatrics, 150(1), 11, https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/150/1/e2022057988/188347/Policy-Statement-Breastfeeding-and-the-Use-of.
Employers can still raise a defense that accommodating lactation-related needs for two years would impose an undue hardship.
65 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n. 98 (Aug. 11, 2023).
66 See, e.g., Bakst, D., Gedmark, E., & Brafman, S. (2019, May). Long Overdue: It is Time for the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act. Retrieved 10 October 2023, from A Better Balance website: https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Long- Overdue.pdf (citing examples of workers who fainted and needed emergency care or experienced pregnancy loss as a result of not being accommodated)
67 See 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n.97 (Aug. 11, 2023).
68 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023).


