54714

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
COMMISSION
29 CFR Part 1636
RIN 3046–AB30

Regulations To Implement the
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
AGENCY: Equal Employment

Opportunity Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

SUMMARY: The Equal Employment

Opportunity Commission is issuing a
proposed rule to implement the
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, which
requires a covered entity to provide
reasonable accommodations to a
qualified employee’s or applicant’s
known limitation related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions, unless
the accommodation will cause an undue
hardship on the operation of the
business of the covered entity.
DATES: Comments regarding this
proposal must be received by the
Commission on or before October 10,
2023. Please see the sections below
entitled ADDRESSES and SUPPLEMENTARY
INFORMATION for additional information
on submitting comments.
ADDRESSES: You may submit comments,
identified by RIN number 3046–AB30,
by any of the following methods:
• Federal eRulemaking Portal:
https://www.regulations.gov. Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.
• Fax: 202–663–4114. Only
comments of six or fewer pages will be
accepted via FAX transmittal, in order
to assure access to the equipment.
Receipt of FAX transmittals will not be
acknowledged, except that the sender
may request confirmation of receipt by
calling the Executive Secretariat staff at
202–921–2815 (voice), 1–800–669–6820
(TTY), or 1–844–234–5122 (ASL video
phone).
• Mail: Raymond Windmiller,
Executive Officer, Executive Secretariat,
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, 131 M Street NE,
Washington, DC 20507.
• Hand Delivery/Courier: Raymond
Windmiller, Executive Officer,
Executive Secretariat, U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission,
131 M Street NE, Washington, DC
20507.
Instructions: The Commission invites
comments from all interested parties.
All comment submissions must include
the agency name and docket number or
the Regulatory Information Number
(RIN) for this rulemaking. Comments
need be submitted in only one of the

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

above-listed formats. All comments
received will be posted without change
to https://www.regulations.gov,
including any personal information you
provide. However, the EEOC reserves
the right to refrain from posting libelous
or otherwise inappropriate comments,
including those that contain obscene,
indecent, or profane language; that
contain threats or defamatory
statements; that contain hate speech
directed at race, color, sex, national
origin, age, religion, disability, or
genetic information; or that promote or
endorse services or products.
Docket: For access to the docket to
read background documents or
comments received, go to https://
www.regulations.gov and search for
‘‘EEOC’’ and ‘‘RIN 3046–AB30.’’ The
received comments also will be
available for review at the Commission’s
library, 131 M Street NE, Suite
4NW08R, Washington, DC 20507,
between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 5
p.m., from October 10, 2023 until the
Commission publishes the rule in final
form.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Sharyn Tejani, Associate Legal Counsel,
sharyn.tejani@eeoc.gov; Office of Legal
Counsel at 202–900–8652 (voice), 1–
800–669–6820 (TTY). Requests for this
rulemaking in an alternative format
should be made to the Office of
Communications and Legislative Affairs
at (202) 921–3191 (voice), 1–800–669–
6820 (TTY), or 1–844–234–5122 (ASL
video phone).
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Introduction
On December 29, 2022, President
Biden signed the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act (PWFA) into law.1 The
PWFA requires a covered entity to
provide reasonable accommodations to
a qualified employee’s or applicant’s
known limitation related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions, absent
undue hardship on the operation of the
business of the covered entity. 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–3 requires the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC or Commission) to promulgate
regulations to implement the PWFA.
The PWFA requires employers to
provide reasonable accommodations to
qualified workers affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
so they can remain healthy and in their
jobs. The PWFA received broad
bipartisan support in both chambers of
Congress and from a wide variety of
1 Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Public
Law 117–328, Division II, 136 Stat. 4459, 6084
(2022) (codified at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2000gg–6).

PO 00000

Frm 00002

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

organizations representing industries,
business associations, individual
businesses, numerous civil rights and
women’s rights organizations, unions,
and faith-based organizations.2 The bill
passed in the House by a vote of 315 to
101 and in the Senate by a vote of 73–
24.3
The PWFA Addresses Limitations in
Coverage Under Title VII, the ADA, and
the FMLA
The PWFA recognizes that there are
gaps in the Federal legal protections for
workers affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions, even though they may have
certain rights under existing civil rights
laws, such as Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et
seq. (as amended by the Pregnancy
Discrimination Act (PDA)) (Title VII),
the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990, 42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq. (ADA),4
the Family and Medical Leave Act of
1993, 29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. (FMLA),
and various State and local laws.5
2 See, e.g., Fighting for Fairness: Examining
Legislation to Confront Workplace Discrimination,
Joint Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Civ. Rts. &
Hum. Servs. and the Subcomm. on Workforce Prots.
of the H. Comm. on Educ. & Lab., 117th Cong. 153
(2021) [hereinafter Fighting for Fairness] (letter from
scores of civil rights and women’s rights groups
supporting the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act); id.
at 151 (letter of support from over two dozen
individual businesses, the U.S. Women’s Chamber
of Commerce, and the National Association of
Manufacturers); Long Over Due: Exploring the
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (H.R. 2694), Hearing
Before the Subcomm. on Civ. Rts. & Hum. Servs. of
the H. Comm. on Educ. & Lab., 116th Cong. 142
(2019) [hereinafter Long Over Due] (letter of support
from health care providers and public health
professionals); id. at 179 (letter of support from the
National WIC Association); id. at 183 (letter of
support from the March of Dimes); 168 Cong. Rec.
S7,049 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of Sen.
Patty Murray) (‘‘[t]his is, fundamentally, a
bipartisan bill that we have worked closely with our
Republican colleagues on. Senator Cassidy coleads
this bill. He has been an amazing partner’’); id. at
S7,048 (statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr.)
(noting that the bill has bipartisan support and that
‘‘[e]veryone from the ACLU to the U.S. Conference
of Catholic Bishops, to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce supports this legislation’’).
3 Roll Call 143, Bill Number: H.R. 1065, Office of
the Clerk, U.S. House of Representatives (May 14,
2021), https://clerk.house.gov/Votes/2021143
(setting out the House vote tally for the Pregnant
Workers Fairness Act); 168 Cong. Rec. S10,071
(daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (setting out the Senate vote
tally for the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act to be
added as an amendment to the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2023).
4 The references to the ADA in this preamble are
intended to apply equally to the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973, as all nondiscrimination standards under
Title I of the ADA also apply to Federal agencies
under Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act, and
Federal applicants and employees are covered by
the PWFA.
5 See, e.g., Cal. Gov’t Code 12945(a)(3); N.D. Cent.
Code Ann. 14–02.4–03; W. Va. Code 5–11B–2; see
also U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Employment Protections for
Workers Who Are Pregnant or Nursing, https://

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Under Title VII, a worker affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions may be able to
obtain a workplace modification to
allow them to continue to work.6
Typically courts have only found in
favor of such claims if the worker can
identify another individual similar in
their ability or inability to work who
received such an accommodation, or if
there is some direct evidence of
disparate treatment (such as a biased
comment or a policy that, on its face,
excludes pregnant workers).7 However,
there may not always be similarly
situated employees. For this reason,
some pregnant workers have not
received simple, common-sense
accommodations, such as a stool for a
cashier 8 or bathroom breaks for a
preschool teacher.9 And even when the
pregnant worker can identify other
workers who are similar in their ability
or inability to work, some courts have
still not found a Title VII violation.10
Under the ADA, certain workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions may have the
right to accommodations if they show
that they have an ADA disability; this
standard does not include pregnancy
www.dol.gov/agencies/wb/pregnant-nursingemployment-protections (last visited Apr. 4, 2023)
[hereinafter Employment Protections for Workers
Who Are Pregnant or Nursing]. In addition, Federal
laws involving Federal funding such as Title IX of
the Education Amendments Act of 1972 (20 U.S.C.
1681 et seq.) and the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunities Act (29 U.S.C. 3240) provide
protection from sex discrimination, including
discrimination based on pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.
6 Title VII protects workers from discrimination
based on sex, which includes pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
Title VII’s prohibition on sex discrimination
includes discrimination ‘‘with respect to . . .
compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1). Title VII
also provides that ‘‘women affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions shall be
treated the same for all employment-related
purposes, including receipt of benefits under fringe
benefit programs, as other persons not so affected
but similar in their ability or inability to work.’’ 42
U.S.C. 2000e(k).
7 See, e.g., Young v. United Parcel Serv., Inc., 575
U.S. 206, 229 (2015).
8 See, e.g., Portillo v. IL Creations Inc., 2019 WL
1440129, at *5 (D.D.C. Mar. 31, 2019).
9 See, e.g., Wadley v. Kiddie Acad. Int’l, Inc., 2018
WL 3035785, at *4 (E.D. Pa. June 19, 2018).
10 See, e.g., EEOC v. Wal-mart Stores East, L.P.,
46 F.4th 587, 597–99 (7th Cir. 2022) (concluding
that the employer did not engage in discrimination
when it failed to accommodate pregnant workers
with light duty assignments, even though the
employer provided light duty assignments for
workers who were injured on the job); but see, e.g.,
Legg v. Ulster Cnty., 820 F.3d 67, 69, 75–77 (2d Cir.
2016) (vacating judgment for the employer where
officers injured on the job were entitled to light
duty but pregnant workers were not).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

itself but instead requires the showing
of a pregnancy-related disability.11
Under the FMLA, covered workers
can receive up to 12 weeks of jobprotected unpaid leave for, among other
things, a serious health condition, the
birth of a child, and bonding with a
newborn within one year of birth.12
However, employees must work for an
employer with 50 or more employees
within 75 miles of their worksite and
meet certain tenure requirements in
order to be entitled to FMLA leave.13
Survey data from 2018 show that only
56 percent of employees are eligible for
FMLA leave.14 Further, the FMLA only
provides unpaid leave—it does not
require reasonable accommodations that
would allow workers to stay on the job
and continue to be paid.
The PWFA responds to these and
other limitations and fills the gaps in
current Federal legal protections. Under
the PWFA, as set forth fully below,
coverage is the same as Title VII and the
ADA, and reasonable accommodations
are available to help apply for a job; to
perform a job; to enjoy equal benefits
and privileges of employment; and to
temporarily suspend the performance of
an essential function of a position, if
certain conditions are met. Importantly,
the PWFA allows workers 15 with
uncomplicated pregnancies to seek
accommodations, recognizing that even
uncomplicated pregnancies may create
limitations for workers.16
In addition to pregnancy and
childbirth, the PWFA covers ‘‘related
medical conditions.’’ 17 ‘‘Related
medical conditions’’ is a term used in
Title VII, that previously has been
11 42 U.S.C. 12102(2) & (4); 29 CFR part 1630 app.
1630(h); EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination and Related Issues II
(2015), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
enforcement-guidance-pregnancy-discriminationand-related-issues [hereinafter Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination].
12 29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1); 29 CFR 825.120.
13 29 U.S.C. 2611(2)(A), (B).
14 Scott Brown et al., Employee and Worksite
Perspectives of the Family and Medical Leave Act:
Executive Summary for Results from the 2018
Surveys 3 (2020), https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/
files/OASP/evaluation/pdf/WHD_
FMLA2018SurveyResults_ExecutiveSummary_
Aug2020.pdf [hereinafter Brown et al.].
15 This preamble uses the term ‘‘worker’’
interchangeably with ‘‘employee or applicant.’’ For
purposes of the PWFA, the term ‘‘worker’’ does not
apply to independent contractors.
16 See, e.g., Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 7
(statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler) (‘‘Pregnancy is
not a disability. Sometimes, due to complications
or even in healthy pregnancies, workers need a
reasonable accommodation from their employer.’’).
Throughout this document, the EEOC uses the term
‘‘uncomplicated’’ pregnancy rather than ‘‘healthy’’
or ‘‘normal.’’
17 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1.

PO 00000

Frm 00003

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54715

defined by the Commission.18 As
discussed in detail in the section-bysection analysis of part 1636.3(b), the
proposed rule explains that the existing
definition will be used for the PWFA, as
it is appropriate for the text of the
statute. This definition reflects the
government’s longstanding and
consistent interpretation of the phrase
and, based on canons of statutory
interpretation, is the legal definition
Congress intended by choosing to use
the same language in the same type of
statute. Further, as explained in the
proposed rule, the PWFA covers
limitations stemming from medical
conditions that are episodic in nature
and related to pregnancy or childbirth.
The PWFA also covers existing
conditions that are exacerbated by, and
therefore related to, pregnancy or
childbirth, such as high blood pressure,
anxiety, or carpal tunnel syndrome.
While some workers may be able to
address any issues that arise related to
these conditions without a reasonable
accommodation, indeed without even
mentioning the issue at the workplace,
others may need reasonable
accommodations that are covered under
the PWFA.
As set out in detail in the section-bysection analysis of parts 1636.3(h) and
(i), the types of reasonable
accommodations that a worker may seek
under the PWFA include, but are not
limited to: job restructuring; part-time or
modified work schedules; more frequent
breaks; acquisition or modification of
equipment, uniforms, or devices;
allowing seating for jobs that require
standing or standing in jobs that require
sitting; appropriate adjustment or
modification of examinations or
policies; permitting the use of paid
leave (whether accrued, short-term
disability, or another type of employer
benefit) or providing unpaid leave,
including to attend health care-related
appointments and to recover from
childbirth; 19 assignment to light duty; 20
18 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k); See Enforcement Guidance
on Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 11, at
I.A.4 (2015).
19 The Commission recognizes that different types
of employers use different terms for time away from
work, including leave, paid time off (PTO), time off,
sick time, vacation, and administrative leave,
among others. Throughout the preamble, the
proposed regulation, and the proposed appendix,
the Commission uses the term ‘‘leave’’ or ‘‘time off’’
and intends those terms to cover leave however it
is identified by the specific employer.
20 The Commission recognizes that ‘‘light duty’’
programs, or other programs providing modified
duties, can vary depending on the covered entity.
EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation and the ADA, text above Question 27
(1996), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
enforcement-guidance-workers-compensation-and-

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

Continued

11AUP2

54716

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

telework; and, accommodating a
worker’s inability to perform one or
more essential functions of a job by
temporarily suspending the requirement
that the employee perform that function,
if the inability to perform the essential
function is temporary and the worker
could perform the essential function in
the near future.21 The proposed
regulation includes a non-exhaustive
list of examples of possible reasonable
accommodations, and the preamble and
the proposed appendix include
additional examples.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Reasonable Accommodations for
Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions Are Critically
Important for Workers and Their
Families
The reasonable accommodations
provided by the PWFA for workers
experiencing pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions are critical to
the economic security of women
workers and their families. Women are
the primary, sole, or co-breadwinners in
nearly 64 percent of families, earning at
least half of their total household
income.22 As of 2021, over 66 percent of
women in the United States who gave
birth in the prior year were in the labor
force,23 up from about 57 percent in
2006.24 Moreover, an increasing number
of pregnant workers are working later
into their pregnancies—over 80 percent
ada [hereinafter Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation]. In the context of the proposed
regulation, the Commission intends ‘‘light duty’’ to
include the types of programs included in
Questions 27 & 28 of the Enforcement Guidance on
Workers’ Compensation and any other policy,
practice, or system that a covered entity has for
accommodating employees, including when one or
more essential functions of a position are
temporarily excused.
21 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).
22 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 21–22 (2021)
(internal citations omitted); id. at 25 (noting that
‘‘[p]regnant workers who are pushed out of the
workplace might feel the effects for decades, losing
out on everything from 401(k) or other retirement
contributions to short-term disability benefits,
seniority, pensions, social security contributions,
life insurance, and more’’). In the NPRM, when
using language from specific sources, EEOC uses
the language of that source (e.g., ‘‘women’’ or
‘‘pregnant women’’).
23 U.S. Census Bureau, Births in the Past Year and
Labor Force Participation for Women Aged 16–50,
by Education: 2006 to 2019, (select ‘‘Historical
Table 5’’) (Feb. 15, 2023), https://www.census.gov/
library/visualizations/time-series/demo/fertilitytime-series.html [hereinafter Births in the Past Year
and Labor Force Participation]; see also Steven
Ruggles et al., IPUMS USA: Version 12.0 (2022),
https://doi.org/10.18128/D010.V12.0 [hereinafter
IPUMS Data] (providing that, in 2021, over 66
percent of women in the U.S. who gave birth in the
prior year were in the labor force). Data are
available by request to registered IPUMS USA users;
please contact ipums@umn.edu.
24 Births in the Past Year and Labor Force
Participation, supra note 23, (select ‘‘Historical
Table 5’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

of first-time mothers who worked
during their pregnancy worked into the
last three months before their child’s
birth.25 The lack of accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions means that pregnant
workers can be faced with an impossible
choice between their job and a
necessary paycheck or their health or
the health of their pregnancy.26 Without
accommodations, pregnant workers too
often may find that they must quit their
jobs or face being fired, which can also
mean that workers lose their employersponsored health insurance at a time
when they especially need it. Others are
forced to take leave, which can mean
that the worker does not have leave to
recover from childbirth later. By
providing a path for accommodations
for these workers, the PWFA will
protect workers’ ability to earn, remain
in the workforce, and advance in their
careers.
Importantly, the economic damage
done to pregnant workers and their
families due to the lack of a right to
reasonable accommodation during
pregnancy is especially hard-hitting for
workers in low-wage jobs. These
workers are the least likely to have
flexibility in their jobs or savings upon
which to draw if they are unemployed
or on unpaid leave.27
Accommodations for limitations due
to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions are especially
necessary for pregnant workers who face
complications or a high risk of
complications, or for those who hold
particular kinds of jobs. As
Representative Jahana Hayes noted
during the debate preceding the House
Committee vote on the PWFA, ‘‘women
of color . . . are more likely to hold
inflexible and physically demanding
jobs that can present specific challenges
for pregnant workers, such as home
25 Lynda Laughlin, U.S. Census Bureau, U.S.
Dep’t of Com., Maternity Leave and Employment
Patterns of First-Time Mothers: 1961–2008 6 (2011),
https://www2.census.gov/library/publications/2011/
demo/p70-128.pdf [hereinafter Maternity Leave and
Employment Patterns of First-Time Mothers].
26 See, e.g., Markup of the Paycheck Fairness Act;
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act; Workplace Violence
Prevention for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act 54:46 (2021), https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6Ie2S9sTxs
[hereinafter Markup of the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act] (statement of Rep. Kathy Manning)
(stating that the goal of the PWFA is to help
pregnant workers ‘‘to deliver healthy babies while
maintaining their jobs’’); id. at 21:50 (statement of
Rep. Robert C. Scott) (stating that, ‘‘without the
basic protections, too many workers are forced to
choose between a healthy pregnancy and their
paychecks’’); id. at 1:35:03 (statement of Rep. Lucy
McBath) (stating that ‘‘no mother should ever have
to choose between the health of themselves and
their child or a paycheck’’).
27 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1 at 22–23.

PO 00000

Frm 00004

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

health aides, food service workers,
package handlers, and cleaners. The
labor-intensive requirements of these
jobs sometimes require a temporary
reasonable accommodation so women
can remain on the job while protecting
the health of themselves and their
babies.’’ 28
In fact, ‘‘Black women are more than
three times as likely as White women to
die from pregnancy-related causes,
while American Indian/Alaska Native
[women] are more than twice as
likely’’ 29 and a recent study shows that
negative health outcomes during
pregnancy disproportionately affect
Black women compared to White
women regardless of wealth.30
Additionally, ‘‘Black mothers are more
likely to experience stillbirth compared
to Hispanic and White mothers.’’ 31
Providing for workplace
accommodations due to pregnancy,
childbirth or related medical conditions
is one step that may help address the
maternal health crisis.32
The PWFA Limits the Burden on
Covered Entities
The PWFA is carefully designed to
limit the burden on covered entities.
Like the ADA, the PWFA provides for
reasonable accommodations in certain
circumstances. While there are not data
regarding the costs of accommodations
under the PWFA, there are data
regarding the costs of accommodations
under the ADA, which show that most
accommodations are low or no cost.
According to a study by the Job
Accommodation Network (JAN)
regarding accommodations for people
28 Markup of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act,
supra note 26, at 1:41 (statement of Rep. Jahana
Hayes).
29 White House Blueprint for Addressing the
Maternal Health Crisis 15 (2022), https://
www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/
Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf.
30 Kate Kennedy-Moulton et al., Maternal and
Infant Health Inequality: New Evidence from Linked
Administrative Data 5, Nat’l Bureau of Econ. Rsch.,
Working Paper No. 30,693, (2022), https://
www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/
w30693/w30693.pdf (finding that maternal and
infant health vary with income, but infant and
maternal health in Black families at the top of the
income distribution is similar to or worse than that
of White families at the bottom of the income
distribution).
31 CDC, Black Mothers Are More Likely to
Experience Stillbirth Compared to Hispanic and
White Mother, (Nov. 3, 2022), https://www.cdc.gov/
ncbddd/stillbirth/features/kf-black-mothersstillbirth.html.
32 See U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Black Mothers at Work:
A Discussion on Workplace Challenges and
Supports, (Apr. 11, 2023), https://
usdolevents.webex.com/recordingservice/sites/
usdolevents/recording/654d1e18bab8103
bbdff00505681d077/playback (discussing how
Federal employment laws can respond to some of
the issues faced by Black mothers at work).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

with disabilities, most employers report
no costs or low costs for providing these
accommodations. Of the 720 employers
who were able to provide cost
information related to accommodations
they had provided, 356 (49.4 percent)
said the accommodations needed by
their employees cost nothing. Another
312 (43.3 percent) experienced a onetime cost. Only 52 (7.2 percent) said the
accommodation resulted in an ongoing,
annual cost to the company. Of those
accommodations that did have a onetime cost, the median one-time
expenditure as reported by the employer
was $300.33 While there are not data
regarding the cost for accommodations
specifically for pregnancy, one survey
concluded that the most common
accommodation needed by pregnant
workers was additional breaks,
especially for using the bathroom,
which is a low- to no-cost
accommodation.34 Moreover, given the
nature of the accommodations required
by the PWFA, virtually all will be
temporary. Given these facts and the
cost data from accommodations under
the ADA, the actual costs an employer
may face will likely be temporary and
low.
Additionally, as set out in the
accompanying economic analysis of the
PWFA pursuant to Executive Order
12866, the number of workers seeking
an accommodation from a given
employer in a year will be small. The
EEOC has calculated that in 2021,
women of reproductive age (aged 16–50
years) comprised approximately 33
percent of U.S. workers. Of these,
approximately 4.7 percent gave birth to
at least 1 child the previous year.35 Not
all pregnant workers require an
accommodation, so the actual number of
accommodations may be even lower
than this number suggests. And, because
the law will keep pregnant workers in
the workforce, even if an employer does
incur costs to provide a PWFA
accommodation, the employer also may
33 Job Accommodation Network, Costs and
Benefits of Accommodation, (May 4, 2023), https://
askjan.org/topics/costs.cfm [hereinafter Costs and
Benefits of Accommodation].
34 Eugene R. Declercq et al., Listening to Mothers
III: New Mothers Speak Out 36 (2013), https://
www.nationalpartnership.org/our-work/resources/
health-care/maternity/listening-to-mothers-iii-newmothers-speak-out-2013.pdf [hereinafter Listening
to Mothers III].
35 See IPUMS Data, supra note 23; see also
Fighting for Fairness, supra note 2, at 109
(testimony of Fatima Goss Graves, President & CEO,
National Women’s Law Center) (noting that even in
occupations in which women are the most likely to
be employed, the number of pregnancies per year
is quite small; ‘‘[f]or example pregnant women are
most likely to work as elementary school teachers
and middle school teachers, but only 3.2 percent of
all elementary and middle school teachers are
pregnant in a given year’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

experience a reduction in turnover and
money spent to hire and train a new
employee.
Most of the PWFA’s provisions will
be familiar to covered entities because
the PWFA borrows intentionally and
extensively from existing civil rights
laws, both in describing coverage and in
imposing requirements. For example,
the PWFA incorporates Title VII’s
definition of ‘‘employer,’’ 36 and Title
VII’s enforcement procedures.37 The
PWFA borrows the definition of
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ and
‘‘undue hardship’’ from the ADA and
uses the same interactive process as is
commonly used under the ADA.38 By
borrowing language and concepts from
Title VII and the ADA, the PWFA allows
employers to build on existing policies
and processes.
Like the ADA, the PWFA does not
require a covered entity to provide a
reasonable accommodation that would
cause undue hardship.39 A covered
entity may therefore lawfully deny any
requested accommodation that would
impose significant difficulty or expense
on its operations, as defined under the
ADA.
Finally, the PWFA is similar to
existing laws in 30 States and localities
regarding accommodations for pregnant
workers; employers in those States and
localities already are familiar with and
comply with laws similar to the
PWFA.40 The PWFA sets a standard for
the entire nation so that employees have
a consistent minimum level of
protection regardless of where they live
in the United States, and no State’s
employers are significantly
disadvantaged by differences in State
law protections for employees affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.
Voluntary Compliance Is Critical for the
PWFA
As with other civil rights laws,
voluntary compliance is critical to the
success of the PWFA. If a worker quits
their job because they do not receive an
accommodation, it is of little use to that
worker that years later they are able to
establish through litigation that they
should have received an
accommodation. Voluntary compliance
should be the norm because, while the
form of reasonable accommodation will
vary depending on the job and the
worker’s needs, the accommodations
36 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(B)(i).
37 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(a).
38 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).
39 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(g).
40 Employment Protections for Workers Who Are
Pregnant or Nursing, supra note 5.

PO 00000

Frm 00005

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54717

that most workers will seek likely will
be no cost to low cost and may be as
simple as access to water during the
workday, additional bathroom breaks, or
sitting or standing. Thus, participation
in a good faith interactive process to
quickly find an accommodation once it
is requested is key, both for workers
who need accommodations and for
employers who need to keep workers on
the job and avoid litigation costs.
Communication between workers and
covered entities is the key to voluntary
compliance. As set out in the proposed
regulations, employees and applicants
have the responsibility of asking for an
accommodation. In doing so, they do
not need to mention the PWFA, say any
specific phrases, or use medical terms,
and the request does not have to be in
writing. Rather, the worker can
communicate (or have someone
communicate on their behalf) that the
worker has a limitation that is related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions and the need for an
adjustment or change at work. Because
the statute and the regulations
emphasize employee notice that is
simple and straightforward, and need
not be in writing, covered entities
should train first-line supervisors to
recognize such requests as requests for
accommodations and to act on them
accordingly.
Once the need for an accommodation
has been communicated, the covered
entity must respond to the request. If the
need is straightforward and can be
easily accommodated (e.g., providing a
stool for a pregnant cashier, or allowing
a pregnant worker to carry a bottle of
water with them and to drink as
needed), the entity should act quickly
and provide the accommodation. If the
entity has questions or wants to explore
different reasonable accommodations,
the covered entity and the employee can
engage in the interactive process by, for
example, having an informal
conversation about the employee’s
needs and possible accommodations.
For accommodations that require more
information, the entity may need to
analyze the essential functions of the job
and may, when necessary and permitted
under the proposed PWFA rules
described below, request reasonable
medical documentation. In general,
these steps should be familiar to
covered entities, as they are similar to
the reasonable accommodation
provisions, including the interactive
process, of the ADA.
Importantly, the physical or mental
condition leading the worker to seek an
accommodation can be a modest, minor,
and/or episodic problem or
impediment: there is no threshold of

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54718

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

severity required under the PWFA. This
is to ensure that employees and
applicants, including those with
uncomplicated pregnancies, have access
to accommodations and that
accommodations are available in order
for workers to maintain their health or
the health of their pregnancies. A
severity threshold is not supported by
the text of the PWFA and would
frustrate the purposes of the Act.
Executive Summary of the PWFA’s
Major Provisions and an Outline of This
NPRM
The PWFA requires a covered entity
to provide reasonable accommodations,
absent undue hardship, to a qualified
employee or applicant with a known
limitation related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. The
Commission’s proposed rule addresses
each element of this requirement in
greater detail; this section contains a
summary in outline form. As required
by the PWFA, the proposed regulations
also provide examples of reasonable
accommodations.
(1) Coverage (42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2) &
(3)):
a. The PWFA covers employers (as
well as unions and employment
agencies), employees, applicants, and
former employees who are currently
covered by (1) Title VII; (2) the
Congressional Accountability Act of
1995, 2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.; 41 (3) the
Government Employee Rights Act of
1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b; 2000e–16c
(GERA); or (4) section 717 of Title VII,
42 U.S.C. 2000e–16, which covers
Federal employees. Whoever satisfies
the definition of an ‘‘employer’’ or
‘‘employee’’ under any of these statutes
is an employer or employee for
purposes of the PWFA.
(2) Remedies and Enforcement (42
U.S.C. 2000gg–2):
a. The procedures for filing a charge
or claim under the PWFA, as well as the
available remedies, including the ability
to obtain damages, are the same as
under (1) Title VII; (2) the Congressional
Accountability Act; (3) GERA; and (4)
section 717 of Title VII, for the
employees covered by the respective
statutes. Limitations regarding available
remedies under these statutes likewise
apply under the PWFA. As with the
ADA, damages are limited if the claim
41 The EEOC does not have enforcement authority
for the Congressional Accountability Act; thus,
these proposed regulations do not apply to workers
or employers covered by that law. The PWFA
directs the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights to issue regulations within six months after
the Commission issues a final rule in this
rulemaking. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(b).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

involves the provision of a reasonable
accommodation, and the employer
makes a good faith effort to meet the
need for a reasonable accommodation.
(3) Known Limitation (42 U.S.C.
2000gg(4)):
a. ‘‘Known limitation’’ is a ‘‘physical
or mental condition related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
that the employee or the employee’s
representative has communicated to the
employer whether or not such condition
meets the definition of disability’’ under
the ADA.
b. The proposed regulation explains
the operative terms in this definition.
i. ‘‘Known’’ means ‘‘the employee or
applicant, or a representative of the
employee or applicant, has
communicated the limitation to the
covered entity.’’
ii. ‘‘Limitation’’ means a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. The
physical or mental condition that is the
limitation may be a modest, minor, and/
or episodic impediment or problem. The
physical or mental condition also may
be that a worker affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
has a need or problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of
their pregnancy. The definition also
includes when a worker is seeking
health care related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical
condition itself.
iii. ‘‘Pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ is a phrase used in
Title VII (42 U.S.C. 2000e(k)) and has
the same meaning as in that statute; the
proposed regulation also provides
additional examples of related medical
conditions.
(4) Qualified (42 U.S.C. 2000gg(g)):
a. The PWFA has two definitions of
qualified.
i. First, the PWFA uses language from
the ADA (‘‘an employee or applicant
who, with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the
essential functions of the employment
position’’ is qualified).
ii. Second, the PWFA allows an
employee or applicant to be
‘‘qualified’’—even if they cannot
perform one or more essential functions
of the job—if the inability to perform the
essential function(s) is ‘‘temporary,’’ the
worker could perform the essential
function(s) ‘‘in the near future,’’ and the
inability to perform the essential
function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated. The proposed rule
defines the terms ‘‘temporary’’ (lasting
for a limited time, not permanent, and
may extend beyond ‘‘in the near

PO 00000

Frm 00006

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

future’’) and ‘‘in the near future’’
(generally within forty weeks). It also
discusses the meaning of the
requirement that the inability to perform
the essential functions(s) can be
reasonably accommodated.
(5) Essential Function:
This is a term from the ADA, and the
proposed rule uses the same definition
as in the ADA. In general terms, it
means the fundamental duties of the
job.
(6) Reasonable Accommodation (42
U.S.C. 2000gg(7)):
This is a term from the ADA, and the
PWFA uses a similar definition as in the
ADA. Generally, it means a change in
the work environment or how things are
usually done. Because of the text and
purpose of the PWFA, the proposed rule
includes supplemental provisions and
specific examples of reasonable
accommodations, as explained in detail
below.
(7) Undue Hardship (42 U.S.C.
2000gg(7)):
This is a term from the ADA and the
PWFA uses a similar definition as in the
ADA. Generally, it means significant
difficulty or expense for the operation of
the covered entity. Because of the text
and purpose of the PWFA, the proposed
regulation includes supplemental
provisions to the ADA’s definition, as
explained in detail below.
(8) Interactive Process (42 U.S.C.
2000gg(7)):
This is a method from the ADA to
help the covered entity and the worker
figure out a reasonable accommodation;
the PWFA anticipates that covered
entities will use it for requests to
accommodate known limitations related
to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. Generally, it means
a discussion or two-way communication
between an employer and an employee
or applicant to identify a reasonable
accommodation.
(9) Prohibited Acts (42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1):
a. The PWFA prohibits a covered
entity from denying a qualified
employee or applicant with a known
limitation a reasonable accommodation,
absent undue hardship.
b. The PWFA prohibits a covered
entity from requiring a qualified
employee or applicant to accept an
accommodation other than one arrived
at through the interactive process.
c. The PWFA prohibits a covered
entity from denying employment
opportunities to a qualified employee or
applicant if the denial is based on the
covered entity’s need to make a
reasonable accommodation for the
known limitation of the employee or
applicant.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
d. The PWFA prohibits a covered
entity from requiring a qualified
employee with a known limitation to
take leave, either paid or unpaid, if
another effective reasonable
accommodation exists, absent undue
hardship.
e. The PWFA prohibits a covered
entity from taking an adverse action in
terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment against a qualified
employee on account of the employee
requesting or using a reasonable
accommodation for a known limitation.
(10) Prohibition on Retaliation and
Coercion (42 U.S.C. 2000gg(f)):
a. Like Title VII and the ADA, the
PWFA prohibits retaliation against any
employee, applicant, or former
employee because that person has
opposed acts or practices made
unlawful by the PWFA or has made a
charge, testified, assisted, or
participated in any manner in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing
under the PWFA.
b. Like the ADA, the PWFA prohibits
coercion, intimidation, threats, or
interference with any individual in the
exercise or enjoyment of rights under
the PWFA or with any individual aiding
or encouraging any other individual in
the exercise or enjoyment of rights
under the Act. The proposed regulation
also specifically provides that like the
ADA’s retaliation and interference
provisions, the PWFA’s retaliation and
coercion provisions prohibit harassment
based on an individual’s exercise or
enjoyment of rights under the PWFA or
aid or encouragement of any other
individual in doing so.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Section-by-Section Analysis of the
Regulation
The Commission seeks comment on
any part of the proposed regulation, the
section-by-section analysis, and the
appendix. The proposed appendix,
entitled Appendix A to 29 CFR part
1636—Interpretive Guidance on the
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act, will
become part of 29 CFR part 1636 when
the proposed rule is finalized. The
Interpretive Guidance represents the
Commission’s interpretation of the
issues addressed within it, and the
Commission will be guided by the
regulation and the Interpretive
Guidance when enforcing the PWFA.
The material currently in the appendix
comes from the preamble to the
proposed rule. In addition, in the
section-by-section analysis the
Commission has identified certain
topics about which it is specifically
seeking comment. For ease of reference,
the list of directed questions appears at

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

the end of the section-by-section
analysis.
Where applicable, throughout the
proposed rule, this preamble, and the
proposed appendix, the Commission
proposes using definitions from the
ADA or Title VII, the ADA’s
implementing regulations, or the
EEOC’s enforcement guidance regarding
both statutes.
Section 1636.1

Purpose

In this section, the Commission sets
forth the provisions of the PWFA in
general terms to describe the purpose of
the law.
Section 1636.2

Definitions—General

Rather than redefine ‘‘Commission,’’
‘‘covered entity,’’ ‘‘respondent,’’
‘‘employer,’’ ‘‘employing office,’’ and
‘‘employee,’’ the PWFA incorporates
existing definitions from other civil
rights statutes. In the proposed rule, the
Commission uses the same language as
the statutory provisions, except that it
provides a full description of the types
of employers and employees covered by
the Government Employee Rights Act of
1991 (42 U.S.C. 2000e–16(c)(a)) (GERA),
rather than merely referencing GERA’s
definitions.
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3)
uses ‘‘employee (including an
applicant)’’ in its definition of
‘‘employee.’’ Thus, throughout the
statute, the proposed regulations, and
the proposed appendix, the term
‘‘employee’’ should be understood to
include ‘‘applicant’’ where relevant.
Because the PWFA relies on Title VII for
its definition of ‘‘employee,’’ the
proposed rule clarifies that the term also
includes ‘‘former employee,’’ where
relevant.42 The PWFA applies to
‘‘covered entities,’’ which include, as
under Title VII, public or private
employers with fifteen or more
employees, unions, employment
agencies, and the Federal Government.
The NPRM, proposed regulation, and
proposed appendix use the term
‘‘covered entity’’ and the term
‘‘employer’’ interchangeably. The
NPRM, proposed regulation, and
proposed appendix use the term
‘‘employee or applicant’’ and
‘‘employee’’; where appropriate,
‘‘employee’’ or ‘‘employee or applicant’’
42 42 U.S.C. 2000e(f). Under Title VII, the term
‘‘employee’’ includes former employees. See
Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346 (1997)
(holding that including former employees within
sec. 704(a) of Title VII’s coverage of ‘‘employee’’
was ‘‘consistent with the broader context of Title
VII and the primary purpose of § 704(a)); see also
EEOC, Compliance Manual Section 2: Threshold
Issues 2–III.A (2009), http://www.eeoc.gov/policy/
docs/threshold.html#2-III-A.

PO 00000

Frm 00007

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54719

means ‘‘employee, applicant, or former
employee.’’
Section 1636.3
PWFA

Definitions Specific to

1636.3(a) Known Limitation
The proposed rule reiterates the
definition of ‘‘known limitation’’ from
section 2000gg(4) of the PWFA and then
provides definitions for the operative
terms.
1636.3(a)(1) Known
Paragraph (1) adopts the definition of
‘‘known’’ based on the PWFA and thus
defines it to mean that the employee or
applicant, or a representative of the
employee or applicant, has
communicated the limitation to the
covered entity.
1636.3(a)(2) Limitation
Paragraph (2) adopts the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ based on the PWFA and
thus defines it to mean a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. The
‘‘physical or mental condition’’ that is
the limitation may be a modest, minor,
and/or episodic impediment or
problem. The definition encompasses
when a worker affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
has a need or problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of
their pregnancy.43 The definition also
includes when the worker is seeking
health care related to the pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical
condition itself. This is consistent with
the ADA which permits reasonable
accommodations for obtaining medical
treatment 44 and recognizes that for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions the proper course of
care can include regular appointments
and monitoring by a health care
professional.45
43 The preamble, proposed regulation, and
proposed appendix use the term ‘‘maintain health
or the health of the pregnancy.’’ This includes
avoiding risk to the employee’s or applicant’s
health or to the health of their pregnancy.
44 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the
ADA, at text after n. 49 (2002), http://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-unduehardship-under-ada [hereinafter Enforcement
Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation].
45 See, e.g., Office of Women’s Health, U.S. Dep’t
of Health and Human Servs., Prenatal Care (last
visited July 18, 2023) (stating that during pregnancy
usually visits are once a month until week 28, twice
a month from weeks 28–36 and once a week from
weeks 36 to birth) https://www.womenshealth.gov/
a-z-topics/prenatal-care; Am. Coll. of Obstetricians
& Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion No. 736,
Optimizing Post-Partum Care (stating the
importance of regular post-partum care) (2021)

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

Continued

11AUP2

54720

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

The general principle informing the
proposed rule’s definition is that the
physical or mental condition (the
limitation) required to trigger the
obligation to provide a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA does
not require a specific level of severity.
This is clear from the text of the statute,
which does not contain a level of
severity, other than stating that the
limitation does not need to meet the
definition of a ‘‘disability’’ under the
ADA.46 The lack of a level of severity is
also necessary given the need the statute
seeks to fill. Workers who can show that
their pregnancy-related condition meets
the definition of a disability may be
eligible to receive an accommodation
under the ADA; workers whose
limitations do not reach that threshold
are ineligible for such accommodations,
and the PWFA is intended to cover
those workers.47 Additionally, the
definition covers situations where a
worker seeks an accommodation in
order to maintain their health or the
health of their pregnancy and avoid
more serious consequences and when a
worker seeks health care for their
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.48 Practically,
(https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2018/05/optimizingpostpartum-care) & Opinion No. 826, Protecting
and Expanding Medicaid to Improve Women’s
Health (encouraging the expansion of Medicaid to
improve post-partum care) (2021) (https://
www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2021/06/protectingand-expanding-medicaid-to-improve-womenshealth).
46 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).
47 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4). See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No.
117–27, pt. 1, at 12 (workers whose pregnancyrelated impairments do not substantially limit a
major life activity and who are not covered by the
ADA can be covered by the PWFA); id. at 22–23
(accommodations are frequently needed by, and
should be provided to, people with healthy
pregnancies); id. (example of an ‘‘uneventful
pregnancy’’ in which a woman needed more
bathroom breaks); id. at 14–22 (outlining the gaps
left by Title VII and the ADA that the PWFA is
intended to fill so that pregnant workers can receive
reasonable accommodations); id. at 56 (noting that
‘‘minor limitations’’ can be covered because they
presumably only require minor accommodations).
48 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at text above
Question 17 (providing reasons for which an
employee may receive an accommodation,
including to obtain medical treatment and to avoid
temporary adverse conditions in the work
environment because of the effect on the worker’s
health). See, e.g., Markup of the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act, supra note 26, at 54:46 (statement of
Rep. Kathy E. Manning) (goal of the PWFA is help
pregnant workers ‘‘to deliver healthy babies while
maintaining jobs’’); id. at 21:50 (statement of Rep.
Robert C. Scott) (‘‘[W]ithout these protections, too
many workers are forced to choose between a
healthy pregnancy and their paychecks’’); id. at 1:35
(statement of Rep. Lucy McBath) (‘‘[N]o mother
should ever have to choose between the heath of
themselves and their child or paycheck.’’); id. at
1:44 (statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici)

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

allowing for accommodations to
maintain health and attend medical
appointments also increases the chances
that the accommodation is minor and
may decrease the need for a more
extensive accommodation because the
worker may be able to avoid more
serious complications.
Because the standard for known
limitation in the statute does not
include a specific level of severity and
accommodations are available for nonsevere physical or mental conditions,
whether a worker has a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions shall be
construed broadly to the maximum
extent permitted by the PWFA.
Related to, Affected by, or Arising Out
of
Whether a physical or mental
condition is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions usually will
be obvious. For example, if an employee
is pregnant and as a result has pain
when standing for long periods of time,
the employee’s physical or mental
condition (pain when standing for a
protracted period) is related to the
employee’s pregnancy. An employee
who is pregnant and because of the
pregnancy cannot lift more than 20
pounds has a physical condition related
to pregnancy. An employee who is
pregnant and is seeking time off for
prenatal health care appointments is
attending a medical appointment related
to the pregnancy. An employee who
requests an accommodation to attend
therapy appointments for postpartum
depression has a medical condition
related to pregnancy (postpartum
depression) and is obtaining health care
for the related medical condition. A
pregnant employee who is seeking an
accommodation to limit exposure to
secondhand smoke to protect the health
of their pregnancy has a physical or
mental condition (trying to maintain the
employee’s health or the health of their
pregnancy or increased sensitivity to
secondhand smoke) related to
pregnancy. A pregnant worker seeking
time off in order to get an amniocentesis
is attending a medical appointment
related to the pregnancy. An employee
who requests leave for IVF treatment for
the worker to get pregnant has a related
medical condition (difficulty in
becoming pregnant or infertility) and is
seeking health care related to it. An
employee whose pregnancy is causing
fatigue has a physical condition (fatigue)
(‘‘[P]regnant workers should not have to choose
between a healthy pregnancy and a paycheck.’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00008

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

related to pregnancy. An employee
whose pregnancy is causing back pain
has a physical condition (back pain)
related to pregnancy. This is not an
exhaustive list of physical or mental
conditions related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.
The Commission recognizes, however,
that some physical or mental conditions
or limitations, including some of those
in the examples above, may occur even
if a person is not pregnant (e.g.,
depression, hypertension, constraints on
lifting). To the extent that a covered
entity has reasonable concerns about
whether a physical or mental condition
or limitation is ‘‘related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions,’’ the
employer may request information from
the employee regarding the connection,
using the principles set out in section
1636.3(l) about the interactive process
and supporting documentation. For the
most part, the Commission anticipates
that determining whether a limitation or
physical or mental condition is related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions will be a
straightforward determination that can
be accomplished through a conversation
between the employer and the employee
as part of the interactive process and
without the need for the employee to
obtain documentation or verification,
such as documentation from a health
care provider. Of course, even if a
covered entity concludes that a
limitation is not covered by the PWFA,
the covered entity should consider
whether the limitation constitutes a
disability that is covered by the ADA.
There may be situations where a
physical or mental condition begins as
something that is related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions, and, once
the pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical condition is over, the limitation
remains. If an employer has questions
regarding whether the limitation is still
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, the employer may
use the principles set out in the sections
regarding the interactive process and
supporting documentation.
Additionally, there may be situations
where that limitation qualifies as a
disability under the ADA. In those
situations, an employer may use the
principles set out in the sections on the
interactive process and supporting
documentation for the ADA.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
1636.3(b) Pregnancy, Childbirth, or
Related Medical Conditions
The PWFA uses the term ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions,’’ which appears in Title
VII’s definition of sex.49 Because
Congress chose to write the PWFA using
the same language as Title VII, in the
proposed rule the Commission gives the
term ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions’’ the same meaning
under the PWFA as under Title VII.50
To assist workers and covered
entities, the proposed regulation
includes a non-exhaustive list of
examples of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions that the
Commission has concluded generally
fall within the statutory definition.
These include conditions that Federal
courts and the EEOC have already
concluded are part of the definition
under Title VII as well as other
conditions that are based on the
expertise of medical professionals. The
list in the proposed regulation for the
definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ includes
current pregnancy, past pregnancy,
potential pregnancy, lactation
(including breastfeeding and pumping),
use of birth control, menstruation,
infertility and fertility treatments,
endometriosis, miscarriage, stillbirth, or
having or choosing not to have an
abortion, among other conditions.51 The

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

49 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
50 See, e.g., Texas Dep’t of Housing & Cmty. Affs.
v. Inclusive Cmtys. Project, 576 U.S. 519, 536 (2015)
(‘‘If a word or phrase has been . . . given a uniform
interpretation by inferior courts . . . , a later
version of that act perpetuating the wording is
presumed to carry forward that interpretation.’’
(omissions in original) (quoting Antonin Scalia &
Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law 323 (2012)); Bragdon
v. Abbott, 524 U.S. 624, 644–45 (1998) (‘‘When
administrative and judicial interpretations have
settled the meaning of an existing statutory
provision, repetition of the same language in a new
statute indicates, as a general matter, the intent to
incorporate its administrative and judicial
interpretations as well.’’); Lorillard v. Pons, 434
U.S. 575, 581 (1978) (‘‘[W]here, as here, Congress
adopts a new law incorporating sections of a prior
law, Congress normally can be presumed to have
had knowledge of the interpretation given to the
incorporated law, at least insofar as it affects the
new statute.’’); Hall v. U.S. Dep’t of Agric., 984 F.3d
825, 840 (9th Cir. 2020) (‘‘Congress is presumed to
be aware of an agency’s interpretation of a statute.
We most commonly apply that presumption when
an agency’s interpretation of a statute has been
officially published and consistently followed. If
Congress thereafter reenacts the same language, we
conclude that it has adopted the agency’s
interpretation.’’) (citations and internal quotations
omitted); Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner,
Reading Law 323 (2012) (‘‘[W]hen a statute uses the
very same terminology as an earlier statute—
especially in the very same field, such as securities
law or civil-rights law—it is reasonable to believe
that the terminology bears a consistent meaning.’’).
51 Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 11, at I.A. (‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’ include

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

current pregnancy, past pregnancy, potential or
intended pregnancy, infertility treatment, use of
contraception, lactation, breastfeeding, and the
decision to have or not to have an abortion, among
other conditions); see, e.g., Hicks v. City of
Tuscaloosa, 870 F.3d 1253, 1259–60 (11th Cir.
2017) (finding lactation and breastfeeding covered
under the PDA, and asserting that ‘‘[t]he PDA
would be rendered a nullity if women were
protected during a pregnancy but then could be
readily terminated for breastfeeding—an important
pregnancy-related physiological process’’) (internal
citation and quotation omitted); EEOC v. Houston
Funding II, Ltd., 717 F.3d 425, 429–30 (5th Cir.
2013) (‘‘[A]s both menstruation and lactation are
aspects of female physiology that are affected by
pregnancy, each seems readily to fit into a
reasonable definition of ‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’ ’’); Doe v. C.A.R.S. Prot.
Plus, Inc., 527 F.3d 358, 364 (3d Cir. 2008) (holding
that the PDA prohibits an employer from
discriminating against a female employee because
she has exercised her right to have an abortion);
Kocak v. Cmty. Health Partners of Ohio, Inc., 400
F.3d 466, 470 (6th Cir. 2005) (stating that the
plaintiff ‘‘cannot be refused employment on the
basis of her potential pregnancy’’); Turic v. Holland
Hosp., Inc., 85 F.3d 1211, 1214 (6th Cir. 1996)
(finding the termination of a pregnant employee
because she contemplated having an abortion
violated the PDA); Piraino v. Int’l Orientation Res.,
Inc., 84 F.3d 270, 274 (7th Cir. 1996) (rejecting
‘‘surprising claim’’ by the defendant that no
pregnancy discrimination can be shown where the
challenged action occurred after the birth of the
plaintiff’s baby); Carney v. Martin Luther Home,
Inc., 824 F.2d 643, 648 (8th Cir. 1987) (referencing
the PDA’s legislative history and noting
commentator agreement that ‘‘[b]y broadly defining
pregnancy discrimination, Congress clearly
intended to extend protection beyond the simple
fact of an employee’s pregnancy to include ‘related
medical conditions’ such as nausea or potential
miscarriage’’) (citations and internal quotations
omitted); Ducharme v. Crescent City Déjà Vu,
L.L.C., 406 F. Supp. 3d 548, 556 (E.D. La. 2019)
(finding that ‘‘abortion is encompassed within the
statutory text prohibiting adverse employment
actions ‘because of or on the basis of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’ ’’);
Donaldson v. Am. Banco Corp., Inc., 945 F. Supp.
1456, 1464 (D. Colo. 1996) (‘‘It would make little
sense to prohibit an employer from firing a woman
during her pregnancy but permit the employer to
terminate her the day after delivery if the reason for
termination was that the woman became pregnant
in the first place. The plain language of the statute
does not require it, and common sense precludes
it.’’); Pacourek v. Inland Steel Co., 858 F. Supp.
1393, 1402–03 (N.D. Ill. 1994) (PDA gives women
‘‘the right . . . to be financially and legally
protected before, during, and after her pregnancy’’
and stating ‘‘[a]s a general matter, a woman’s
medical condition rendering her unable to become
pregnant naturally is a medical condition related to
pregnancy and childbirth for purposes of the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act.’’) (internal citations
and quotations omitted); Neessen v. Arona Corp.,
2010 WL 1731652, at *7 (N.D. Iowa Apr. 30, 2010)
(finding the plaintiff covered by the PDA where the
defendant allegedly refused to hire her because she
had recently been pregnant and given birth); 29 CFR
part 1604 app. Questions 34–37 (1979); H.R. Rep.
No. 95–1786, at 4 (1978), as reprinted in 95th Cong.,
2d Sess. 4, 1978 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4749, 4766 (‘‘Because
the bill applies to all situations in which women
are ‘affected by pregnancy, childbirth, and related
medical conditions,’ its basic language covers
decisions by women who chose to terminate their
pregnancies. Thus, no employer may, for example,
fire or refuse to hire a woman simply because she
has exercised her right to have an abortion.’’);
EEOC, Commission Decision on Coverage of
Contraception (2000), https://www.eeoc.gov/

PO 00000

Frm 00009

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54721

Commission emphasizes that the list in
the regulation is non-exhaustive, and to
receive an accommodation an employee
or applicant does not have to specify a
condition on this list or use medical
terms to describe a condition.
However, to be a ‘‘related medical
condition’’ as applied to the specific
employee or applicant in question, the
condition must relate to pregnancy or
childbirth. Some of the ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ listed in the regulation are
conditions that commonly, but not
necessarily, relate to pregnancy or
childbirth. If a worker has a condition
that is listed in the regulation but, in
their situation, it does not relate to
pregnancy or childbirth, the condition
shall not be covered under the PWFA.
For example, if a worker has high blood
pressure but that medical condition is
not related to pregnancy or childbirth, a
physical or mental condition related to
the worker’s high blood pressure is not
eligible for an accommodation under the
PWFA. Other civil rights statutes, such
as the ADA, separately may entitle the
worker to reasonable accommodation. If
an employer has questions regarding
whether a condition is related to
pregnancy or childbirth, the employer
may use the principles set out in the
sections regarding the interactive
process and supporting documentation.
‘‘Related medical conditions’’ include
conditions that existed before pregnancy
or childbirth (and for which an
individual was perhaps receiving
reasonable accommodation under the
ADA) but that may be or have been
exacerbated by pregnancy or childbirth,
such that additional or different
accommodations are needed. For
example, a worker who was using
unpaid leave as an accommodation to
attend treatment for anxiety may
experience a worsening of anxiety due
to pregnancy or childbirth and request
an additional accommodation. A worker
who received extra breaks to eat or
drink due to Type 2 diabetes before
pregnancy may need additional
accommodations during pregnancy to
monitor and manage the diabetes more
closely and avoid or minimize adverse
health consequences to the worker or
their pregnancy. A worker may have
high blood pressure that can be
managed prior to the pregnancy, but
once the worker is pregnant, the high
blood pressure poses a risk to the
pregnancy and the worker needs bed
rest.
commission-decision-coverage-contraception (‘‘The
PDA’s prohibition on discrimination against women
based on their ability to become pregnant thus
necessarily includes a prohibition on
discrimination related to a woman’s use of
contraceptives.’’).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54722

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

In these situations, an employee could
request an additional accommodation
under the ADA or an accommodation
under the PWFA.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(c) Employee’s Representative
Paragraph (c) of this section of the
proposed rule defines ‘‘employee’s
representative’’ because the known
limitation may be communicated to the
covered entity by the employee or the
employee’s representative. Under the
ADA, a representative may also make
the request for an accommodation.52
Thus, the proposed rule uses the same
definition from the ADA and states that
this term encompasses any
representative of the employee or
applicant, including a family member,
friend, health care provider, or other
representative.
1636.3(d) Communicated to the
Employer
Paragraph (d) of this section of the
proposed rule states that the PWFA’s
requirement that the known limitation
be ‘‘communicate[d] to the employer’’
means to make known to the covered
entity either by communicating with a
supervisor, manager, someone who has
supervisory authority for the employee
(or the equivalent for an applicant), or
human resources personnel, or by
following the covered entity’s policy to
request an accommodation. This should
not be a difficult task, and the employer
should permit an employee or applicant
to request an accommodation through
multiple avenues and means. Given that
many accommodations requested under
the PWFA will be straightforward—like
additional bathroom breaks or water—
the Commission emphasizes the
importance of employees being able to
obtain accommodations by
communicating with the people who
assign them daily tasks and whom they
would normally consult if they had
questions or concerns. Employees
should not be made to wait for a
reasonable accommodation that is
simple and imposes negligible cost, and
is often likely temporary, because they
asked the wrong supervisor. The
Commission seeks comment on whether
the definition of whom the employee or
applicant may communicate with to
start the reasonable accommodation
process is appropriate or whether it
should be expanded or limited with the
understanding that the process should
not be burdensome for the worker.
Paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) explain that
a request for a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, as
52 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, Question 2.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

with the ADA, does not need to be in
writing or use any specific words or
phrases. Instead, employees or
applicants may request accommodations
in conversation or may use another
mode of communication to inform the
employer.53 A covered entity may
choose to write a memorandum or letter
confirming a request or may ask the
employee or applicant to fill out a form
or submit the request in written form.
However, the covered entity cannot
ignore or close the initial request
because that initial request is sufficient
to place the employer on notice.54
Additionally, even though it is not
required, an employee may choose
email or other similar written means to
submit a request for an accommodation
to ensure clarity and create a record.
Paragraph (d)(3) of this section of the
proposed regulation sets out what an
employee or applicant must
communicate to the employer to request
an accommodation under the PWFA.
Such a request has two parts. First, the
employee or applicant (or their
representative) must identify the
limitation that is the physical or mental
condition and that it is related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. Second, the employee or
applicant (or their representative) must
indicate that they need an adjustment or
change at work. As with the ADA, to
request an accommodation, an
employee or applicant may use plain
language and need not mention the
PWFA; use the phrases ‘‘reasonable
accommodation,’’ ‘‘known limitation,’’
‘‘qualified,’’ ‘‘essential function;’’ use
any medical terminology; or use any
other specific words or phrases.
Examples
Example 1636.3 #1: A pregnant employee
tells her supervisor, ‘‘I’m having trouble
getting to work at my scheduled starting time
because of morning sickness.’’
Morning sickness is a physical condition
related to pregnancy that impedes a person’s
ability to eat and drink and requires access
to a bathroom. The employee has identified
a change needed at work (change in work
schedule). This is a request for a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #2: An employee who gave
birth three months ago tells the person who
assigns her work at the employment agency,
‘‘I need an hour off once a week for
treatments to help with my back problem that
started during my pregnancy.’’
The back problem is a physical condition
related to pregnancy, and the employee has
identified a change needed at work (leave for
medical appointments). This is a request for
53 Id. at Question 3.
54 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00010

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #3: An employee tells a
human resources specialist that they are
worried about continuing to lift heavy boxes
because they are concerned that it will harm
their pregnancy.
The employee has a limitation because
they have a need or a problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of their
pregnancy, the employee identified a change
needed at work (assistance with lifting), and
the employee communicated this information
to the employer. This is a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #4: An employee’s spouse,
on the employee’s behalf, requests light duty
for the employee because the employee has
a lifting restriction related to pregnancy; the
employee’s spouse uses the employer’s
established process for requesting a
reasonable accommodation or light duty for
the employee.
The lifting restriction is a physical
condition related to the employee’s
pregnancy, and the employee’s representative
(their spouse) has identified a change needed
at work (light duty). This is a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #5: An employee verbally
informs a manager of her need for more
frequent bathroom breaks, explains that the
breaks are needed because the employee is
pregnant, but does not complete the
employer’s online form for requesting
accommodation.
The need to urinate more frequently is a
physical condition related to pregnancy, and
the employee has identified a change needed
at work (additional bathroom breaks). An
employee need not use specific words or any
specific form or template to make a request
for accommodation. This is a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #6: An employee tells a
supervisor that she needs time off to recover
from childbirth.
The need or a problem is related to
maintaining the employee’s health after
childbirth, and the employee has identified
a change needed at work (time off). This is
a request for a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA.55

1636.3(e) Mitigating Measures
There may be steps that a worker can
take to mitigate, or lessen, the effect of
a known limitation. Paragraph (e) of this
section of the proposed rule explains
that, as with the ADA, the ameliorative,
or positive, effects of mitigating
55 See infra § 1636.3(h) Particular Matters
Regarding Leave as a Reasonable Accommodation
for a discussion of how requests for leave interact
with situations where an employee has a right to
leave under an employer’s policy or another law;
see also EEOC, Employer-Provided Leave and the
Americans with Disabilities Act, Communication
After an Employee Requests Leave (2016), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/employer-providedleave-and-americans-disabilities-act [hereinafter
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave],
for an explanation of this interaction and other
helpful information about the interaction between
the ADA and other laws requiring employers to
provide leave to employees.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
measures, as that term is defined in the
Commission’s ADA regulations, shall
not be considered when determining if
the employee has a limitation under the
PWFA. However, again as under the
ADA, the detrimental or nonameliorative effects of mitigating
measures, such as negative side effects
of medication, the burden of following
a particular treatment regimen, and
complications that arise from surgery,
may be considered when determining if
an employee has a limitation under the
PWFA.56
1636.3(f) Qualified Employee or
Applicant

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

An employee or applicant must meet
the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ in the
PWFA in one of two ways.57
In paragraph (f) of this section, the
proposed rule reiterates the statutory
language that ‘‘qualified employee’’
means an employee or applicant who,
with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the
essential functions of the position.
Additionally, following the statute, the
proposed rule also states that an
employee or applicant shall be
considered qualified if: (1) any inability
to perform an essential function is for a
temporary period; (2) the essential
function could be performed in the near
future; and (3) the inability to perform
the essential function can be reasonably
accommodated. The proposed rule
relies on the ADA’s definition of
‘‘qualified individual’’ for applicants
and employees,58 with necessary
modifications to account for differences
in the language of the statutes, as
explained below.
As with the ADA, the determination
of whether an employee with a known
limitation is qualified should be based
on the capabilities of the employee at
the time of the relevant employment
decision and should not be based on
speculation that the employee may
become unable in the future to perform
certain tasks, may require leave, or may
cause increased health insurance
premiums or workers’ compensation
costs.59
56 29 CFR 1630.2(j)(1)(vi), (4)(ii); see also 29 CFR
part 1630 app. 1630.2(j)(1)(vi).
57 The PWFA does not address prerequisites for
a position; thus, whether an employee or applicant
is qualified for the position in question is
determined based on whether the employee or
applicant can perform the essential functions of the
position, with or without a reasonable
accommodation, or based on the second part of the
PWFA’s definition of ‘‘qualified.’’ 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(6).
58 42 U.S.C. 12111(8); 29 CFR 1630.2(m).
59 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(m).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

1636.3(f)(1) The First Part of PWFA’s
Definition of Qualified Employee or
Applicant—With or Without Reasonable
Accommodation
Under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6), employees
are qualified if they can perform the
essential functions of their jobs with or
without reasonable accommodation,
which is the same language as in the
ADA and is interpreted accordingly in
the proposed rule. ‘‘Reasonable’’ has the
same meaning as under the ADA on this
topic—an accommodation that ‘‘seems
reasonable on its face, i.e., ordinarily or
in the run of cases,’’ ‘‘feasible,’’ or
‘‘plausible.’’ 60 Many workers seeking
reasonable accommodations under the
PWFA will meet this part of the
definition. For example, a pregnant
attorney who uses the firm’s established
telework program to work at home
during morning sickness does not need
an accommodation to perform the
essential functions of the job and
therefore is qualified without a
reasonable accommodation. A pregnant
cashier who needs a stool to perform the
job will be qualified with the reasonable
accommodation of a stool. A teacher
recovering from childbirth who needs
additional bathroom breaks will be
qualified with a reasonable
accommodation that allows such breaks.
Determining ‘‘Qualified’’ for the
Reasonable Accommodation of Leave
The proposed rule explains that when
determining whether an employee who
needs leave as a reasonable
accommodation meets the definition of
‘‘qualified,’’ the relevant inquiry is
whether the employee would be able to
perform the essential functions of the
position, with or without reasonable
accommodation (or, if not, if the
inability to perform the essential
function(s) is for a temporary period, the
essential function(s) could be performed
in the near future, and the inability to
perform the essential function(s) can be
reasonably accommodated), with the
benefit of a period of intermittent leave,
after a period of part-time work, or at
the end of a period of leave or time off.61
60 US Airways, Inc. v. Barnett, 535 U.S. 391, 401–
02 (2002); see, e.g., Shapiro v. Twp. of Lakewood,
292 F.3d 356, 360 (3d Cir. 2002) (citing the
definition from Barnett); Osborne v. Baxter
Healthcare Corp., 798 F.3d 1260, 1267 (10th Cir.
2015) (citing the definition from Barnett); EEOC v.
United Airlines, Inc., 693 F.3d 760, 762 (7th Cir.
2012) (citing the definition from Barnett); see also
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at text
accompanying nn.8–9 (citing the definition from
Barnett).
61 If the employee will not be able to perform all
of the essential functions at the end of the leave
period, with or without accommodation, the
employee may still be qualified under the second

PO 00000

Frm 00011

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54723

Thus, an employee who needs some
form of leave to recover from a known
limitation caused, for example, by
childbirth or a miscarriage, can meet the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ because it is
reasonable to conclude that once they
return from the period of leave (or
during the time they are working if it is
intermittent leave) they will be able to
perform the essential functions of the
job, with or without additional
reasonable accommodations or will be
qualified under the second part of the
PWFA definition that is described in the
next subsection. Of course, if an
employer can demonstrate that leave
would pose an undue hardship, for
example, due to the length, frequency,
or unpredictable nature of the time off
that was requested, it may lawfully deny
the request.62
1636.3(f)(2) The Second Part of PWFA’s
Definition of Qualified Employee or
Applicant—Temporary Inability To
Perform an Essential Function
The PWFA provides that an employee
or applicant can meet the definition of
‘‘qualified’’ even if they cannot perform
one or more essential functions of the
position in question, provided three
conditions are met: (1) the inability to
perform an essential function(s) is for a
temporary period; (2) the essential
function(s) could be performed in the
near future; and (3) the inability to
perform the essential function(s) can be
reasonably accommodated.63
Based on the overall structure and
wording of the statute, the second part
of the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is
relevant only when an employee or
applicant cannot perform one or more
essential functions of the job in question
because of a known limitation under the
PWFA. It is not relevant in any other
circumstance. If the employee or
applicant can perform the essential
functions of the position with or
without a reasonable accommodation,
the first definition of ‘‘qualified’’ applies
(able to do the job with or without a
reasonable accommodation). For
example, if a pregnant worker requests
additional restroom breaks, the question
of whether they are qualified is simply
whether they can perform the essential
part of the PWFA’s definition of qualified employee
or applicant. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).
62 As with the ADA, in determining whether leave
under the PWFA causes an undue hardship, an
employer may consider leave that the employee has
already used under, for example, the FMLA. See
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave,
supra note 55, at Examples 17 and 18. For more
information regarding leave as a reasonable
accommodation, see infra § 1636.3(h) Particular
Matters Regarding Leave as a Reasonable
Accommodation.
63 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54724

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

functions of their job with the
reasonable accommodation of additional
restroom breaks, and there is no need to
apply the definitions of ‘‘temporary’’ or
‘‘in the near future,’’ or to determine
whether the inability to perform an
essential function can be reasonably
accommodated (as no such inability
exists).
By contrast, some examples of
situations where the second definition
may be relevant include: (1) a pregnant
construction worker is told by their
health care provider to avoid lifting
more than 20 pounds during the second
through ninth months of pregnancy, an
essential function of the worker’s job
requires lifting more than 20 pounds,
and there is not a reasonable
accommodation that will allow the
worker to perform that function without
lifting more than 20 pounds; and (2) a
pregnant police officer is unable to
perform patrol duties during the third
through ninth months of the pregnancy,
patrol duties are an essential function of
the job, and there is not a reasonable
accommodation that will allow the
worker to perform the essential
functions of the patrol position.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Example 1636.3 #7/Qualified Employee:
Launa has been working as a landscaper for
two years, and her job regularly involves
moving bags of soil that weigh 35–40 pounds.
Launa becomes pregnant and lets her
supervisor know that she has a lifting
restriction of 20 pounds because of her
pregnancy.
1. Known Limitation: Launa’s lifting
restriction is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; Launa needs a change or
adjustment at work; Launa has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified:
a. Launa may be qualified with a
reasonable accommodation of a device that
helps with lifting.
b. If there is no device or other reasonable
accommodation (or the device or other
reasonable accommodation is too expensive
or otherwise causes undue hardship for the
employer) the employer must consider
whether Launa meets the second definition
of qualified: whether (1) the inability to
perform the essential function is temporary,
(2) Launa could perform the essential
function in the near future, and (3) the
inability to perform the essential function
can be reasonably accommodated.

If the employer establishes that all
possible accommodations that would
allow the employee to temporarily
suspend one or more essential functions
would impose an undue hardship, then
the employee will not be qualified
under the PWFA’s second definition of
qualified (because the inability to

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

perform the essential function cannot be
reasonably accommodated).64
The PWFA does not provide
definitions of the terms ‘‘temporary’’ or
‘‘in the near future,’’ nor does it give any
additional explanation of the third
prong of this definition. The
Commission has provided definitions
for these terms pursuant to its authority
to issue regulations to implement the
PWFA.65
1636.3(f)(2)(i) Temporary
The proposed rule defines the term
‘‘temporary’’ to mean that the need to
suspend one or more essential functions
is ‘‘lasting for a limited time,66 not
permanent, and may extend beyond ‘in
the near future.’ ’’ As explained below,
how long it may take before the
essential function can be performed is
further limited by the definition of ‘‘in
the near future.’’
1636.3(f)(2)(ii) In the Near Future
The proposed rule defines ‘‘in the
near future’’ to mean generally forty
weeks from the start of the temporary
suspension of an essential function.
This is based on the time of a full-term
pregnancy (forty weeks). In the
Commission’s view, to define ‘‘in the
near future’’ as less than generally forty
weeks—i.e., the duration of a full-term
pregnancy—would run counter to a
central purpose of the PWFA of keeping
pregnant workers in the workforce even
when pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions necessitate the
reasonable accommodation of
temporarily suspending the
performance of one or more essential
functions of a job.67 Of course, if an
64 If there is no reasonable accommodation that

allows the worker to continue to work, absent
undue hardship, the employee may be qualified for
leave as a reasonable accommodation if leave does
not cause an undue hardship.
65 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3.
66 Temporary, Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary,
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/temporary (‘‘lasting for a
limited time’’) (last visited June 13, 2023). This
definition is consistent with Robert v. Bd. of Cnty.
Comm’rs’ of Brown Cnty., Kan., 691 F.3d 1211, 1218
(10th Cir. 2012) which was cited in the House
Report in the discussion of this term. H.R. Rep. No.
117–27, at n.109) (when determining whether a
request for leave could be ‘‘reasonable’’ under the
ADA, defining ‘‘temporary’’ as that the essential
function can be resumed).
67 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 5 (‘‘When
pregnant workers do not have access to reasonable
workplace accommodations, they are often forced to
choose between their financial security and a
healthy pregnancy. Ensuring that pregnant workers
have access to reasonable accommodations will
promote the economic well-being of working
mothers and their families and promote healthy
pregnancies.’’); id. at 22 (‘‘When pregnant workers
are not provided reasonable accommodations on the
job, they are oftentimes forced to choose between
economic security and their health or the health of

PO 00000

Frm 00012

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

accommodation is sought that requires
the temporary suspension of an
essential function, regardless of the
amount of time sought, the employer
may raise the undue hardship defense.
The Commission also recognizes there
may be physical or mental conditions
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions for which workers
may seek the temporary suspension of
an essential function when the worker
is not currently pregnant. These
conditions include pre-pregnancy
limitations such as infertility, and postpregnancy limitations such as acute
cardio-vascular problems that are a
consequence of the pregnancy.
Although the length of pre- and postpartum physical or mental conditions
will vary, the Commission proposes
using ‘‘generally forty weeks’’ to
measure whether the worker meets the
‘‘in the near future’’ requirement in the
second definition of ‘‘qualified’’ in
every situation where the reasonable
accommodation sought under the PWFA
is the temporary suspension of one or
more essential functions.
The Commission’s decision is based
on several factors. First, in the first year
after childbirth, severe health
conditions, including ones that may
require the temporary suspension of an
essential function, are common.68
According to a Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) study,
53% of pregnancy-related deaths
occurred from one week to one year
after delivery, and 30% occurred one
and one half months to one year postpartum.69 Likely for similar reasons,
their babies.’’); id. at 24 (‘‘Ensuring pregnant
workers have reasonable accommodations helps
ensure that pregnant workers remain healthy and
earn an income when they need it the most.’’); id.
at 33 (‘‘The PWFA is about ensuring that pregnant
workers can stay safe and healthy on the job by
being provided reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. . . . The PWFA is one crucial step
needed to reduce the disparities pregnant workers
face by ensuring that pregnant women, and
especially pregnant women of color, can remain
safe and healthy at work.’’).
68 Susan Trost et. al., Pregnancy-Related Deaths:
Data from Maternal Mortality Review Committees in
36 U.S. States, 2017–2019, Ctrs. for Disease Control
& Prevention, U.S. Dep’t of Health and Human
Servs. (2022), https://www.cdc.gov/
reproductivehealth/maternal-mortality/erase-mm/
data-mmrc.html.
69 Id. More deaths occurred seven to 365 days
after delivery than occurred during delivery itself
(53.3% v. 21.6%). The leading causes of death were
mental health conditions, hemorrhage, cardiac and
coronary conditions, infection, thrombotic
embolism, and cardiomyopathy. The leading causes
of death varied by race and ethnicity. For Black
individuals, cardiac and coronary conditions were
the leading causes of death; for White individuals
and Hispanic individuals, the leading cause was
mental health conditions; for Asian individuals, the
leading cause of death was hemorrhage. The leading

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

thirty-five States and the District of
Columbia provide twelve months of
comprehensive Medicaid coverage after
delivery, rather than sixty days.70 Thus,
allowing a worker to meet the second
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ if they need an
essential function temporarily
suspended for generally forty weeks
after return to work from childbirth (or
for other reasons related to a known
limitation) is a reasonable
approximation of the period of time
needed ‘‘in the near future’’ for
conditions related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions and therefore
is consistent with the purpose of the
PWFA. Finally, in the Commission’s
view, one definition for ‘‘in the near
future’’ will allow for simplified
administration.
The Commission emphasizes that the
definition in this section does not mean
that the essential function(s) must
always be suspended for forty weeks, or
that if an employee seeks the temporary
suspension of an essential function(s)
for forty weeks it must be automatically
granted. The actual length of the
temporary suspension of the essential
function(s) will depend upon what the
employee requires, and the covered
entity always has available the defense
that it would create an undue hardship.
However, the mere fact that the
temporary suspension of one or more
essential functions is needed for any
time period up to and including
generally forty weeks will not, on its
own, render a worker unqualified under
the PWFA.
Further, the Commission recognizes
that workers may need an essential
function temporarily suspended because
of pregnancy; may take leave to recover
from childbirth; and, upon returning to
work, may need the same essential
function or a different one temporarily
suspended due to a new or different
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. In keeping with the
requirement that the determinations as
to whether an individual is qualified
under the PWFA should be made based
on the situation at hand and the
accommodation currently at issue,71 the
cause of death for Native American individuals was
not reported due to small sample size.
70 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, U.S.
Dep’t of Health and Human Servs., States that have
Expanded Postpartum Coverage, (last visited July
19, 2023) https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/
quality-of-care/downloads/image-maternity-careexpansion.png.
71 See 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.1 (‘‘The
determination of whether an individual with a
disability is qualified is to be made at the time of
the employment decision. The determination

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

54725

Commission proposes that the
determination of ‘‘in the near future’’
would be made when the employee asks
for each accommodation that requires
the suspension of one or more essential
functions. Thus, a worker who is three
months pregnant seeking an
accommodation of the temporary
suspension of an essential function will
meet the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for
‘‘in the near future’’ because the
pregnancy will be over in less than forty
weeks. When the worker returns from
leave after childbirth, if the worker
needs an essential function temporarily
suspended, they will meet the definition
of ‘‘qualified’’ for ‘‘in the near future’’ if
they could perform the essential
function within forty weeks of the
suspension. In other words, for ‘‘in the
near future,’’ the forty weeks would
restart once the pregnancy is over and
the worker returns to work after leave.
In the Commission’s view, restarting
the calculation of ‘‘generally forty
weeks’’ in the definition of ‘‘qualified’’
for ‘‘in the near future’’ is necessary
because it would often be difficult, if
not impossible, for a pregnant employee
to predict what their limitations (if any)
will be after pregnancy. Before
childbirth, they may not know whether,
and if so, for how long, they will have
a known limitation or need an
accommodation after giving birth. They
also may not know whether the
accommodation after childbirth will
require the temporary suspension of an
essential function, and, if so, for how
long. All of these questions may be
relevant under the PWFA’s second
definition of ‘‘qualified.’’
Further, a rule that allows a covered
entity to combine periods of the
temporary suspension of essential
function(s) during pregnancy and the
post-partum period in order to
determine if a worker is ‘‘qualified’’
would raise questions about, for
example, whether the requests were
close enough in time to be combined
and whether the forty weeks should
restart if a different essential function
needs to be temporarily suspended.
Determining where and how those lines
should be drawn would require
litigation regarding the term ‘‘qualified’’
and create confusion around
implementation of the statute.
The Commission notes that leave
related to recovery from pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
does not count as time when an
essential function is suspended and

thus is not relevant for the second prong
of the definition of qualified. If an
individual needs leave as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA or,
indeed, any reasonable accommodation
other than the temporary suspension of
an essential function, only the first
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is relevant. In
the case of leave, the question would be
whether the individual, after returning
from the requested period of leave,
would be able to perform the essential
functions of the position with or
without reasonable accommodation (or,
if not, if the inability to perform the
essential function(s) is for a temporary
period, the essential function(s) could
be performed in the near future, and the
inability to perform the essential
function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated). Furthermore, for some
workers, leave to recover from
childbirth will not require a reasonable
accommodation because they have a
right to leave under Federal, State, or
local law or as part of an employer
policy. Thus, for the purpose of
determining whether the employee is
qualified under the second prong of
‘‘qualified’’ regarding the suspension of
an essential function, the Commission
does not intend for employers or
workers to count time on leave for
recovery from childbirth.72
The Commission does not believe that
its definition of ‘‘in the near future’’ will
cause excessive difficulties for covered
entities because the ‘‘generally forty
weeks’’ time period is only to determine
if the worker can be considered
qualified under this definition. If the
temporary suspension of the essential
function causes undue hardship or (as
explained in the next section) the
temporary suspension of the essential
function cannot be reasonably
accommodated, the employer does not
have to provide the reasonable
accommodation.
The Commission seeks comment on
the proposed definition of ‘‘in the near
future’’ including (a) whether the
definition of ‘‘in the near future’’ postpregnancy should be one year rather
than generally forty weeks; (b) whether
periods of temporary suspension of an
essential function during pregnancy and
post-pregnancy should be combined,
and, if so, how should that be done and
what rule should be adopted to ensure
that a pregnant worker is not required
to predict what limitations they will
experience after pregnancy given that a
pregnant worker will not generally be

should be based on the capabilities of the
individual with the disability at the time of the
employment decision, and not be based on
speculation that the employee may become unable
in the future’’).

72 For additional information on how leave
should be addressed under the PWFA, see supra
With or Without Reasonable Accommodation—
Leave and infra § 1636.3(h) Particular Matters
Regarding Leave as a Reasonable Accommodation.

PO 00000

Frm 00013

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54726

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

able to do so; and (c) whether there are
alternative approaches that would more
effectively ensure that workers are able
to seek the accommodations they need
while limiting the burden on covered
entities.
1636.3(f)(2)(iii) Can Be Reasonably
Accommodated
The proposed rule also explains that
to satisfy the PWFA’s second definition
of ‘‘qualified,’’ the covered entity must
be able to reasonably accommodate the
inability to perform one or more
essential functions without undue
hardship. For some positions, this may
mean that one or more essential
functions are temporarily suspended,
with or without reassignment to
someone else, and the employee
continues to perform the remaining
functions of the job. For other jobs,
some of the essential functions may be
temporarily suspended, with or without
reassignment to someone else, and the
employee may be assigned other tasks to
replace them. In yet other situations,
one or more essential functions may be
temporarily suspended, with or without
reassignment to someone else, and the
employee may perform the functions of
a different job to which the employer
temporarily transfers or assigns them, or
the employee may participate in the
employer’s light or modified duty
program.73 Throughout this process, as
with other reasonable accommodation
requests, an employer may need to
consider more than one alternative to
identify a reasonable accommodation
that does not pose an undue hardship.
Depending on how the temporary
suspension is accomplished, the
covered entity may have to prorate or
change a performance or production
standard so that the accommodation is
effective.74

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Example 1636.3 #8: One month into a
pregnancy, Akira, a worker in a paint
manufacturing plant, is told by her health
care provider that she should avoid certain
chemicals for the remainder of the
pregnancy. One of the essential functions of
this job involves regular exposure to these
chemicals. Akira talks to her supervisor,
explains her limitation, and asks that she be
allowed to switch duties with another worker
whose job does not require the same
exposure but otherwise involves the same
functions. There are numerous other tasks
73 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 27 (‘‘the
temporary inability to perform essential functions
due to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions does not render a worker
‘‘unqualified. . . . there may be a need for a
pregnant worker to temporarily perform other tasks
or otherwise be excused from performing essential
functions before fully returning to her position once
she is able.’’).
74 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 19.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

that Akira could accomplish while not being
exposed to the chemicals.
1. Known limitation: Akira has a need or
a problem relating to maintaining the health
of her pregnancy, which is a physical
condition related to pregnancy; Akira needs
a change or adjustment at work; Akira has
communicated this information to her
employer.
2. Qualified: Akira needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function.
a. Akira’s inability to perform the essential
function is temporary.
b. Akira could perform the essential
functions of her job in the near future
because Akira needs an essential function
suspended for less than forty weeks.
c. Akira’s inability to perform the essential
function may be reasonably accommodated.
The employer can suspend the essential
function that requires her to work with the
chemicals and have her do the remainder of
her job. Alternatively, Akira can perform the
other tasks that are referenced or switch
duties with another worker. The employer
must grant the accommodation (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #9: Two months into a
pregnancy, Lydia, a delivery driver, is told by
her health care provider that she should not
lift more than 20 pounds. Lydia routinely has
to lift 30–40 pounds as part of the job. She
discusses the limitation with her employer.
The employer is unable to provide Lydia
with assistance in lifting packages, and Lydia
requests placement in the employer’s light
duty program, which is used for drivers who
have on-the-job injuries.
1. Known limitation: Lydia’s lifting
restriction is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; she needs a change in work
conditions; and she has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Lydia needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function.
a. Lydia’s inability to perform the essential
function is temporary.
b. Lydia could perform the essential
functions of her job in the near future
because Lydia needs an essential function
suspended for less than forty weeks.
c. Lydia’s need to temporarily suspend an
essential function of her job may be
reasonably accommodated through the
existing light duty program. The employer
must grant the accommodation (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.

1636.3(g) Essential Functions
The proposed rule adopts the
Commission’s definition of ‘‘essential
function’’ contained in the regulations
implementing the ADA regulations: ‘‘the
fundamental job duties of the
employment position the individual
. . . holds or desires,’’ excluding ‘‘the
marginal functions of the position.’’ 75
Thus, in determining whether
something is an essential function, the
first consideration is whether employees
in the position actually are required to
75 29 CFR 1630.2(n).

PO 00000

Frm 00014

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

perform the function, and relevant
evidence includes both the position
description and information from
incumbents (including the employee
requesting the accommodation) about
what they actually do on the job.76
The Commission seeks comments on
whether there are additional factors that
should be considered in determining
whether a function is essential for
purposes of the PWFA.77 For example,
given that many, if not all, known
limitations under the PWFA will be
temporary, should the definition of
‘‘essential function’’ under the PWFA
consider whether the function is
essential to be performed by the worker
in the limited time for which an
accommodation will be needed.
1636.3(h) Reasonable
Accommodation—Generally
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) states that the
term ‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ has
the meaning given to it in section 101
of the ADA and shall be construed as it
is construed under the ADA and the
Commission’s regulations implementing
the PWFA. As stated in the Appendix to
the ADA Regulations, ‘‘[t]he obligation
to make reasonable accommodation is a
form of non-discrimination’’ and is
therefore ‘‘best understood as a means
by which barriers to the equal
employment opportunity [of an
employee or applicant with a known
limitation under the PWFA] are
removed or alleviated.’’ 78 A
modification or adjustment is
reasonable if it ‘‘seems reasonable on its
face, i.e., ordinarily or in the run of
cases;’’ this means it is ‘‘reasonable’’ if
it appears to be ‘‘feasible’’ or
‘‘plausible.’’ 79 An accommodation also
must be effective in meeting the needs
of the employee or applicant, meaning
it removes a workplace barrier and
provides the individual with equal
opportunity.80
Under the PWFA, a reasonable
accommodation has the same definition
76 29 CFR 1630.2(n); 29 CFR part 1630 app.
1630.2(n).
77 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 28 (stating
that the factors adopted by the EEOC to determine
essential functions under the ADA are ‘‘instructive,
although not determinative’’ for the PWFA).
78 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
79 See supra note 60.
80 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 9 and
29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9 (providing that a
reasonable accommodation ‘‘should provide the
individual with a disability with an equal
employment opportunity. Equal employment
opportunity means an opportunity to attain the
same level of performance, or to enjoy the same
level of benefits and privileges of employment as
are available to the average similarly situated
employee without a disability.’’).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
as under the ADA.81 Therefore, like the
ADA, reasonable accommodations
under the PWFA include modifications
or adjustments to the job application
process that enable a qualified applicant
with a known limitation to be
considered for the position;
modifications or adjustments to the
work environment, or to the manner or
circumstances under which the position
is done to allow a person with a known
limitation to perform the essential
functions of the job; and modifications
or adjustments that enable an employee
with a known limitation to enjoy equal
benefits and privileges of
employment.82 Because the PWFA also
provides for reasonable
accommodations when a worker
temporarily cannot perform one or more
essential functions of a position but
could do so in the near future,
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA also includes modifications or
adjustments that allow an employee
with a known limitation to temporarily
suspend one or more essential functions
of the position.
Additions to the Definition of
Reasonable Accommodation
Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) states
that ‘‘reasonable accommodation’’

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

81 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).
82 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(i–iii). The requirement for
reasonable accommodations that provide for equal
benefits and privileges is shorthand for the
requirement that an accommodation should provide
the individual with an equal employment
opportunity (29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9). This
requirement stems from the ADA’s prohibition on
discrimination in ‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges
of employment.’’ 42 U.S.C. 12112(a). The PWFA
prohibits adverse action in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment against a qualified
employee for using or requesting an
accommodation and Title VII—which applies to
workers affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions—prohibits
discrimination in the terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment. 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1).
Based on the text of the PWFA, Title VII, and the
requirement under the PWFA that reasonable
accommodation has the same definition as in the
ADA, the same requirement applies. Thus, a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
includes a change to allow employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. nondiscrimination in the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment or, in
shorthand, to enjoy equal benefits and privileges.
See also EEOC Compliance Manual Section 613
Terms, Conditions, and Privileges of Employment,
613.1(a) (1982) (‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges
of employment’’ are ‘‘to be read in the broadest
possible terms’’ and ‘‘a distinction is rarely made
between terms of employment, conditions of
employment, or privileges of employment’’),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/cm-613-termsconditions-and-privileges-employment#:∼:text=
The%20following%20employment%20
practices%20or%20activities
%20which%20are,or%20
activity%20is%20considered
%20in%20its%20broad%20sense [hereinafter
Compliance Manual on Terms, Conditions, and
Privileges of Employment].

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

should have the meaning of the term
under the ADA and the regulations set
forth in for the PWFA, the proposed rule
takes the definition of ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ provided in the
regulations implementing the ADA 83
and makes five additions to apply it in
the context of the PWFA.
First, the proposed rule replaces
references to ‘‘individual with a
disability’’ and similar terms with
‘‘employee with a known limitation’’
and similar terms.84
Second, the proposed rule includes an
addition to the ADA’s definition of
reasonable accommodation that is
required by the PWFA. As explained in
the discussion of the term qualified
employee above, the PWFA provides
that the temporary suspension of one or
more essential functions is a potential
reasonable accommodation by defining
‘‘qualified employee’’ to include an
employee who cannot perform one or
more essential functions of the position
for a temporary period, provided they
could do so in the near future, and the
inability to perform the essential
function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated without undue
hardship. The proposed rule illustrates
the implications, meaning, and
application of this requirement.
Third, the proposed rule incorporates
certain examples of accommodations
long recognized by the EEOC as
reasonable accommodations for
individuals with disabilities but not
explicitly included in the nonexhaustive examples of reasonable
accommodation in the ADA regulation.
These are discussed below in
§ 1636.3(i).
Fourth, in addition to noting paid
leave (whether accrued, short-term
disability, or another type of employer
benefit) and unpaid leave as examples
of reasonable accommodations, the
proposed rule states that either type of
leave to recover from childbirth is an
example of a potential reasonable
accommodation for pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. This is explained in more
detail below.
83 29 CFR 1630.2(o).
84 The proposed rule also deletes examples of
reasonable accommodation that are unlikely to be
relevant to the PWFA, i.e., ‘‘provision of qualified
readers or interpreters.’’ A person covered by the
PWFA who is blind or deaf who needs these
reasonable accommodations because of their
disability may be entitled to them under the ADA.
Nothing added or deleted from the PWFA’s
proposed list of reasonable accommodations is
intended to alter the ADA’s standards. Nor does the
exclusion of these reasonable accommodations
mean that they could not be required under the
PWFA in appropriate circumstances, such as when
pregnancy exacerbates a pre-existing medical
condition.

PO 00000

Frm 00015

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54727

Finally, the proposed rule provides
details about potential reasonable
accommodations related to lactation.
Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to
Health Due to the Known Limitation
Under the PWFA and the proposed
rule, a worker may seek a reasonable
accommodation in order to alleviate
increased pain or increased risk to
health that is attributable to the physical
or mental condition related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
that has been communicated to the
employer (the known limitation).85
When dealing with requests for
accommodation concerning the
alleviation of increased pain or
increased risk to health associated with
a known limitation, the goal is to
provide an accommodation that allows
the worker to alleviate the identified
increase in pain or risk to health.
Example 1636.3 #10: Celia is a factory
worker whose job requires her to move boxes
that weigh 50 pounds regularly. Prior to her
pregnancy, Celia occasionally felt pain in her
knee when she walked for extended periods
of time. After returning to work after having
a cesarean section, Celia’s health care
provider says she should limit the tasks that
require moving boxes to no more than 30
pounds for three months because heavier
lifting could increase the risk to her health
and recovery. Celia can seek an
accommodation that would help her lift
between 30 and 50 pounds because it is
needed for her known limitation related to
childbirth. However, the PWFA would not
require the employer to provide an
accommodation regarding Celia’s knee pain
because that situation is not attributable to
Celia’s known limitation, unless there is
evidence that the pain in walking was
exacerbated by Celia’s pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. The employer
may have accommodation responsibilities
regarding Celia’s knee pain under the ADA.
Example 1636.3 #11: Lucille has opioid use
disorder that she controls with medication.
After giving birth, she experiences
postpartum depression. As a result, she is put
on an additional medication that she must
take with food, and she starts therapy with
a new provider. Under the PWFA, Lucille
requests that she be allowed to take breaks
to eat when she needs to take her medication
and that she be allowed to use intermittent
leave to attend her therapy appointments.
Under the PWFA, the employer is required
to provide the requested accommodations (or
other reasonable ones) absent undue
hardship. The employer does not have to
provide an accommodation for Lucille’s
underlying opioid use disorder under the
85 Depending on the facts of the case, the
accommodation sought will allow the employee to
apply for the position, to perform the essential
functions of the job, to enjoy equal benefits and
privileges of employment, or allow the temporary
suspension of an essential function of the job.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54728

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

PWFA, although it may have accommodation
responsibilities under the ADA.
Example 1636.3 #12: Jackie’s position at a
fabrication plant involves working with
certain chemicals, which Jackie thinks is the
reason she has a nagging cough and chapped
skin on her hands. Once she becomes
pregnant, Jackie seeks the accommodation of
a temporary suspension of an essential
function of working with the chemicals
because the chemicals create an increased
risk to her pregnancy. The employer provides
the accommodation. After Jackie gives birth
and returns to work, she no longer has any
known limitations. Thus, she can be assigned
to work with the chemicals again even if she
would rather not do that work, because the
PWFA only requires an employer to provide
an accommodation that is needed due to the
known limitation related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions.
Jackie’s employer may also have
accommodation responsibilities under the
ADA.
Example 1636.3 #13: Margaret is a retail
worker who is pregnant. Because of her
pregnancy, Margaret feels pain in her back
and legs when she has to move stacks of
clothing from one area to the other, which is
one of the essential functions of her position.
She can still manage to move the clothes, but,
because of the pain, she requests a cart to use
when she is moving the garments. Under the
PWFA, the employer is required to provide
the requested accommodation (or another
reasonable accommodation), absent undue
hardship, because doing so accommodates
Margaret’s limitation arising out of her
pregnancy. If Margaret also has wrist pain
that is not caused or exacerbated by the
pregnancy, Margaret’s employer is under no
obligation under the PWFA to provide an
accommodation for the wrist pain because it
is not related to, affected by, or arising out
of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. However, the employer may have
accommodation responsibilities regarding
Margaret’s wrist pain under the ADA.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation
The Commission has long recognized
the use of all forms of paid and unpaid
leave as a potential reasonable
accommodation under the ADA,
including for part-time schedules.86
Given Congress’ extensive use of ADA
terms and provisions in the PWFA—
including specifically the definition of
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’—the
Commission proposes to include these
potential reasonable accommodations in
this proposal’s definition of reasonable
accommodation.
Leave, including intermittent leave,
may be a reasonable accommodation
even if the covered entity does not offer
86 See 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(2)(ii); 29 CFR part 1630
app. 1630.2(o); Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 44, at text
accompanying nn.48–49.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

it as an employee benefit.87 If an
employee requests leave as an
accommodation or if there is no other
reasonable accommodation that does
not cause an undue hardship, the
covered entity must consider providing
leave as a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA, even if the employee
is not eligible for leave under the
employer’s leave policy or the employee
has exhausted the leave the covered
entity provides as a benefit (including
leave exhausted under a workers’
compensation program, the FMLA, or
similar State or local laws).88
The proposed rule also provides that
leave to recover from childbirth,
miscarriage, stillbirth, or other related
conditions is a potential reasonable
accommodation (absent undue
hardship).89 The proposed rule further
explains that workers protected by the
PWFA must be permitted to choose
whether to use paid leave (whether
accrued, as part of a short-term
disability program, or as part of any
other employee benefit) or unpaid leave
to the same extent that the covered
entity allows employees using leave for
reasons unrelated to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to choose between these various types of
leave.90 However, as under the ADA, an
employer is not required to provide
additional paid leave under the PWFA
beyond the amount to which the
employee is otherwise entitled.
The Commission recognizes that there
may be situations where an employer
accommodates a pregnant employee
with a stool or additional breaks or
temporarily suspends one or more
essential functions under the PWFA,
and then the employee requests leave to
recover from childbirth. In these
situations, the covered entity should
consider the request for the reasonable
accommodation of leave to recover from
childbirth in the same manner that it
would any other request for leave as a
87 See Technical Assistance on EmployerProvided Leave, supra note 55, at text above
Example 4.
88 Id. Of course, if an employee has a right to
leave under the FMLA, an employer policy, or a
State or local law, the employee is entitled to leave
regardless of whether they request leave as a
reasonable accommodation. An employee who
needs leave beyond what they are entitled to under
those laws or policies will need to request leave as
a reasonable accommodation.
89 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 29 (noting that
‘‘leave is one possible accommodation under the
PWFA, including time off to recover from
delivery’’).
90 A failure to allow a worker affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
to use paid or unpaid leave to the same extent that
the covered entity allows employees using leave for
reasons unrelated to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions to do so may be a
violation of Title VII as well.

PO 00000

Frm 00016

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

reasonable accommodation. This
requires first considering whether the
employee will be able to perform the
essential functions of the position with
or without a reasonable accommodation
after the period of leave, or, if not,
whether, after the period of leave, the
employee will meet the second
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ under the
PWFA.
Under the ADA regulations, a
reasonable accommodation cannot
excuse an employee from complying
with valid production standards that are
applied uniformly to all employees.91
However, for example, when the
reasonable accommodation is leave, the
employee may not be able to meet a
production standard during the period
of leave or, depending on the length of
the leave, meet that standard for a
defined period of time (e.g., the
production standard measures
production in one year and the
employee was on leave for four months).
Thus, if the reasonable accommodation
is leave, the production standard may
need to be prorated to account for the
reduced amount of time the employee
worked.92 For example, if a call center
employee with a known limitation
requests and is granted two hours of
leave in the afternoon for rest, the
employee’s required number of calls
may need to be reduced proportionately,
as could the employee’s pay.
Alternatively, the accommodation could
allow for the employee to make up the
time at a different time during the day
so that the employee’s production
standards and pay would not be
reduced.
As under the ADA, an employee with
a known limitation who is granted leave
as a reasonable accommodation under
the PWFA is entitled to return to their
same position unless the employer
demonstrates that holding open the
position would impose an undue
hardship.93 Likewise, an employer must
continue an employee’s health
insurance benefits during their leave
period to the extent that it does so for
other employees in a similar leave
status. When the employee is ready to
return to work, the employer must allow
the individual to return to the same
91 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at text
accompanying n.14.
92 Id. at Question 19.
93 See id. at Question 18. As under the ADA, if
an employer cannot hold a position open during the
entire leave period without incurring undue
hardship, the employer must consider whether it
has a vacant, equivalent position for which the
employee is qualified and to which the employee
can be reassigned to continue their leave for a
specific period of time and then, at the conclusion
of the leave, can be returned to this new position.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
position (assuming that there was no
undue hardship in holding it open) if
the employee is still qualified (i.e., the
employee can perform the essential
functions of the position with or
without reasonable accommodation or if
the employee meets the PWFA’s second
definition of qualified).94
Under the PWFA, an employer may
deny a reasonable accommodation if it
causes an undue hardship—a significant
difficulty or expense. Thus, if an
employer can demonstrate that the leave
requested as a reasonable
accommodation poses an undue
hardship—for example, because of its
length, frequency, or unpredictable
nature, or because of another factor—it
may lawfully deny the requested leave
under the PWFA.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Ensuring That Workers Are Not
Penalized for Using Reasonable
Accommodations
Covered entities making reasonable
accommodations must ensure that their
ordinary workplace policies or practices
do not operate to penalize employees for
utilizing such accommodations. For
example, when a reasonable
accommodation involves a pause in
work—such as a break, a part-time or
other reduced work schedule, or leave—
an employee cannot be penalized for
failing to perform work during such a
non-work period. Similarly, policies
that monitor workers for time on task
(whether through automated means or
otherwise) and penalize them for being
off task may need to be modified to
avoid imposing penalties for non-work
periods that the employee was granted
as a reasonable accommodation.
Likewise, if an accommodation under
the PWFA involves the temporary
suspension of an essential function of
the position, a covered entity may not
penalize an employee for not
performing the essential function that
has been temporarily suspended.
Penalizing an employee in these
situations would be retaliation for the
employee’s use of a reasonable
accommodation to which they are
entitled under the law.95 It would also
render the accommodation ineffective,
thus making the covered entity liable for
failing to provide a reasonable
accommodation.96 The Commission
seeks comment on whether there are
other situations where this may apply
and whether examples would be helpful
to illustrate this point.

Personal Use
The obligation to provide reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, like
the ADA, does not extend to the
provision of adjustments or
modifications that are primarily for the
personal benefit of the individual with
a known limitation. However,
adjustments or modifications that might
otherwise be considered personal may
be required as reasonable
accommodations ‘‘where such items are
specifically designed or required to
meet job-related rather than personal
needs.’’ 97
For example, if a warehouse employee
is pregnant and is having difficulty
sleeping, the PWFA would not require
as a reasonable accommodation for the
employer to provide a pregnancy pillow
and a white noise machine to help with
sleeping because they are strictly for an
employee’s personal use. However,
allowing the employee some flexibility
in start times for the workday may be a
reasonable accommodation because it
modifies an employment-related policy.
In a different context, if the employee
who is having trouble sleeping works at
a job that involves sleeping between
shifts on-site, such as a job as a
firefighter, sailor, emergency responder,
health care worker, or truck driver, a
pregnancy pillow may be a reasonable
accommodation because the employee
is having a difficult time sleeping
because of the pregnancy, the employer
is providing the place and items
necessary for sleeping, and the
employee needs a modification of the
items and place.
All Services and Programs
Under the PWFA, as under the ADA,
the obligation to make reasonable
accommodation applies to all services
and programs and to all non-work
facilities provided or maintained by an
employer for use by its employees so
that employees or applicants with
known limitations can enjoy equal
benefits and privileges of
employment.98 Accordingly, the
obligation to provide reasonable
accommodation, barring undue
hardship, includes providing access to
employer-sponsored placement or
counseling services, such as employee
assistance programs, and to employerprovided cafeterias, lounges,
gymnasiums, auditoriums,
transportation, and to similar facilities,
services, or programs.99

94 Id. at Question 21.
95 Id. at Question 19; see also 2000gg–1(5),
2000gg–2(f) and the accompanying regulations.
96 Id. at Question 19.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

97 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
98 Id.
99 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00017

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54729

Interim Reasonable Accommodation
Providing an interim reasonable
accommodation is a best practice under
the PWFA in certain circumstances.100
An employee may have an urgent need
for a reasonable accommodation due to
the nature or sudden onset of a known
limitation under the PWFA. For
example, a pregnant employee may
experience vaginal bleeding, which may
indicate a more serious problem. Upon
discovering the bleeding, the employee
may ask for immediate leave to go see
their health care provider. The
employee then may need additional
leave, telework, rest breaks, or a later
start time, beginning immediately. In
this situation, a covered entity, as a best
practice, should consider providing an
interim reasonable accommodation that
meets the employee’s needs while the
interactive process is conducted.
Similarly, an employee recovering from
childbirth may ask for the reasonable
accommodation of more frequent or
longer bathroom breaks, and the covered
entity should consider meeting that
need, as an interim reasonable
accommodation, before the conclusion
of the interactive process. Covered
entities that do not provide interim
reasonable accommodations are
reminded that an unnecessary delay in
the interactive process or providing a
reasonable accommodation may lead to
liability under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
even if the reasonable accommodation is
eventually granted, as explained in
detail in § 1636.4(a) of the proposed
regulation.
1636.3(i) Reasonable Accommodation—
Examples
The definition of ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ in the proposed PWFA
rule incorporates certain
accommodations long recognized by the
EEOC as reasonable accommodations
but not explicitly included in the nonexhaustive examples of reasonable
accommodations in the ADA regulation.
The inclusion of these possible
reasonable accommodations in the
proposed regulation also helps to meet
the requirement in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3
that EEOC’s regulations provide
examples of reasonable
accommodations addressing known
100 The same is true under the ADA. EEOC, Final
Report on Best Practices for Employment of People
with Disabilities in the State Government II.B.1
(2005), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/finalreport-best-practices-employment-peopledisabilities-state-government [hereinafter Best
Practices State Government] (noting that
‘‘[t]emporary accommodations may enable a worker
who has made a request for reasonable
accommodation under the ADA to continue
working while a final determination of whether to
grant or deny the accommodation is being made’’).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54730

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The Commission notes that
an employee or applicant may need
more than one of these accommodations
at the same time or as a pregnancy
progresses.
• Frequent breaks. The EEOC has
long construed the ADA to require
additional breaks as a reasonable
accommodation, absent undue
hardship.101 For example, a pregnant
employee might need more frequent
breaks due to shortness of breath; an
employee recovering from childbirth
might need more frequent restroom
breaks or breaks due to fatigue because
of recovery from childbirth; or an
employee who is lactating might need
more frequent breaks for water or
food.102
• Sitting/Standing. The Commission
has recognized the provision of seating
for jobs that require standing and
standing for those that require sitting as
a potential reasonable accommodation
under the ADA.103 Reasonable
accommodation of these needs might
include, but is not limited to, policy
modifications and the provision of
equipment, such as seating, a sit/stand
desk, or anti-fatigue floor matting,
among other possibilities.
• Schedule changes, part-time work,
and paid and unpaid leave. The
Appendix to the ADA Regulations
explains that permitting the use of paid
leave (whether accrued, as part of a
short-term disability program, or as part
of any other employee benefit) or
providing additional unpaid leave is a
potential reasonable accommodation
under the ADA.104 Additionally, the
Appendix recognizes that leave for
medical treatment can be a reasonable
accommodation.105 By way of example,
an employee could need a schedule
101 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 22; see
also See H. R. Rep. 117–27, pt. 1, at 22; 168 Cong.
Rec. S7,048 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of
Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S10,081
(daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert
P. Casey, Jr.).
102 Breaks may be paid or unpaid depending on
the employer’s normal policies and other applicable
laws. Breaks may exceed the number that an
employer normally provides because reasonable
accommodations may require an employer to alter
its policies, barring undue hardship.
103 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at General
Principles, Example B; see also H.R. Rep. No. 117–
27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29.
104 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(o); see also
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave,
supra note 55. Additionally, an employer
prohibiting a worker from using accrued leave for
pregnancy-related reasons or while allowing other
workers to use leave for similar reasons may also
violate Title VII.
105 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(o).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

change to attend a round of IVF
appointments to get pregnant; a parttime schedule to address fatigue during
pregnancy; or additional unpaid leave
for recovery from childbirth, medical
treatment, post-partum treatment or
recuperation related to a cesarean
section, episiotomy, infection,
depression, thyroiditis, or preeclampsia.
• Telework. Telework or ‘‘work from
home’’ has been recognized by the
EEOC as a potential reasonable
accommodation.106 Telework could be
used to accommodate, for example, a
period of bed rest or a mobility
impairment.
• Parking. Providing reserved parking
spaces if the employee is otherwise
entitled to use employer-provided
parking may be reasonable
accommodation to assist a worker who
is experiencing fatigue or limited
mobility because of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
• Light duty. Assignment to light
duty or placement in a light duty
program has been recognized by the
EEOC as a potential reasonable
accommodation under the ADA, even if
the employer’s light duty positions are
normally reserved for those injured onthe-job and the person with a disability
seeking a light duty position does not
have a disability stemming from an onthe-job injury.107
• Making existing facilities accessible
or modifying the work environment.108
Examples of reasonable
accommodations might include
allowing access to an elevator not
normally used by employees; moving
the employee’s workspace closer to a
bathroom; providing a fan to regulate
temperature; or moving a pregnant or
lactating employee to a different
workspace to avoid exposure to
chemical fumes. As noted in the
proposed regulation, this also may
include modifications of the work
environment to allow an employee to
pump breast milk at work.109
106 See, e.g., Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 44, at
Question 34.
107 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation, supra note 20, at Question 28; see
also 168 Cong. Rec. S7,048 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022)
(statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr.) (‘‘What are
other types of reasonable accommodations that
pregnant workers may request? Light duty is a
common example.’’); id. at S7,049 (statement of
Sen. Patty Murray) (noting that workers need
accommodations because ‘‘their doctors say they
need to avoid heavy lifting’’); H.R. Rep.117–27, pt.
1, at 14–17 (discussing Young v. United Parcel
Serv., Inc., 575 U.S. 206 (2015), a case involving
light duty for pregnant workers).
108 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(ii); (2)(i).
109 On December 29, 2022, President Biden signed
the Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for

PO 00000

Frm 00018

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

• Job restructuring.110 Job
restructuring might involve, for
example, removing a marginal function
that required a pregnant employee to
climb a ladder or occasionally retrieve
boxes from a supply closet.
• Temporarily suspending one or
more essential functions. For some
positions, this may mean that one or
more essential functions are temporarily
suspended, and the employee continues
to perform the remaining functions of
the job. For others, the essential
function(s) will be temporarily
suspended, and the employee may be
assigned other tasks. For others, the
essential function(s) will be temporarily
suspended, and the employee may
perform the functions of a different job
to which the employer temporarily
transfers or assigns them. For yet others,
the essential function(s) will be
temporarily suspended, and the
employee will participate in the
employer’s light or modified duty
program.
• Acquiring or modifying equipment,
uniforms, or devices.111 Examples of
reasonable accommodations might
include providing uniforms and
equipment, including safety equipment,
that account for changes in body size
during and after pregnancy, including
during lactation; providing devices to
assist with mobility, lifting, carrying,
reaching, and bending; or providing an
ergonomic keyboard to accommodate
pregnancy-related hand swelling or
tendonitis.
• Adjusting or modifying
examinations or policies.112 Examples
of reasonable accommodations include
Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328
Division KK). The law extended coverage of the Fair
Labor Standards Act’s (FLSA) protections for
nursing employees to apply to most workers. The
FLSA provides most workers with the right to break
time and a place to pump breast milk at work. 29
U.S.C. 218d; U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Fact Sheet #73:
FLSA Protections for Employees to Pump Breast
Milk at Work (Jan. 2023), https://www.dol.gov/
agencies/whd/pump-at-work.2023), https://
www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fact-sheets/73-flsabreak-time-nursing-mothers. Employees who are
not covered by the PUMP Act or employees who
seek to pump longer than one year may seek
reasonable accommodations regarding pumping
under the PWFA. Further, employees who are
covered by the PUMP Act may seek additional
related accommodations, such as access to a sink,
a refrigerator, and electricity. See, e.g., U.S. Dep’t
of Lab., Notice on Reasonable Break Time for
Nursing Mothers, 75 FR 80073, 80075–76 (Dec. 21,
2010) (discussing space requirements and noting
factors such as the location of the area for pumping
compared to the employee’s workspace, the
availability of a sink and running water, the
location of a refrigerator to store milk, and
electricity may affect the amount break time
needed). The PUMP Act is enforced by the
Department of Labor, not the EEOC.
110 29 CFR 1630.2 (o)(2)(ii).
111 Id.
112 Id.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
allowing workers with a known
limitation to postpone an examination
that requires physical exertion.
Adjustments to policies also could
include increasing the time or frequency
of breaks to eat or drink or to use the
restroom.
The proposed PWFA rule includes
these additional examples in the
regulatory language.
Below the Commission provides some
examples of types of reasonable
accommodations and how they can be
analyzed. The Commission seeks
comment on whether more examples
would be helpful and, if so, the types of
conditions and accommodations that
should be the focus of the additional
examples.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Examples of Types of Reasonable
Accommodations
Example 1636.3 #14/Telework: Gabriela, a
billing specialist in a doctor’s office,
experiences nausea and vomiting beginning
in her first trimester of pregnancy. Her doctor
believes the nausea and vomiting will pass
within a couple of months. Because the
nausea makes commuting extremely difficult,
Gabriela makes a verbal request to her
manager stating she has nausea and vomiting
due to her pregnancy and requests that she
be permitted to work from home for the next
two months so that she can avoid the
difficulty of commuting. The billing work
can be done from her home or in the office.
1. Known limitation: Gabriela’s nausea and
vomiting is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; Gabriela needs an adjustment or
change at work; Gabriela has communicated
the information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Gabriela can do the billing
work with the reasonable accommodation of
telework.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #15/Temporary
Suspension of an Essential Function: Nisha,
a nurse assistant working in a large elder care
facility, is advised in the fourth month of
pregnancy to stop lifting more than 25
pounds for the rest of the pregnancy. One of
the essential functions of the job is to assist
patients in dressing and bathing, and moving
them from or to their beds, tasks that
typically require lifting more than 25 pounds.
Nisha sends an email to human resources
asking that she not be required to lift more
than 25 pounds for the remainder of her
pregnancy and requesting a place in the
established light duty program under which
workers who are hurt on the job take on
different duties while coworkers take on their
temporarily suspended duties.
1. Known limitation: Nisha’s lifting
restriction is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; Nisha needs an adjustment or
change at work; Nisha has communicated
that information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Nisha is asking for the
suspension of an essential function. The
suspension is temporary, and Nisha could
perform the essential functions of the job ‘‘in

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

the near future’’ (generally within forty
weeks). It appears that the inability to
perform the function can be reasonably
accommodated through its temporary
suspension and Nisha’s placement in the
established light duty program.
3. The employer must grant the reasonable
accommodation of temporarily suspending
the essential function, or another reasonable
accommodation, absent undue hardship. As
part of the temporary suspension, the
employer may assign Nisha to the light duty
program.
Example 1636.3 #16: Same facts as above
but the employer establishes the light duty
program is limited to 10 slots and that all 10
slots are filled for the next 6 months. In these
circumstances, the employer must consider
other possible reasonable accommodations,
such as the temporary suspension of an
essential function without assigning Nisha to
the light duty program, or job restructuring
outside of the established light duty program.
If such accommodations cannot be provided
without undue hardship, then the employer
must consider a temporary reassignment to a
vacant position for which Nisha is qualified,
with or without reasonable accommodation.
For example, if the employer has a vacant
position that does not require lifting patients
which Nisha could perform with or without
a reasonable accommodation, the employer
must offer her the temporary reassignment as
a reasonable accommodation, absent undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #17/Assistance with
Performing an Essential Function: Mei, a
warehouse worker, requests via her
employer’s online accommodation process
that a dolly be provided to assist her in
moving items that are bulky to accommodate
her post-cesarean section medical restrictions
for three months.
1. Known Limitation: Mei’s need for
assistance in moving bulky items is a
physical condition related to childbirth; Mei
needs an adjustment or change at work; Mei
has communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Mei could perform the
essential functions of her position with the
reasonable accommodation of a dolly.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #18/Appropriate Uniform
and Safety Gear: Ava, a pregnant police
officer, asks their union representative for
help getting a larger size uniform and larger
size bullet proof vest in order to cover their
growing pregnancy. The union representative
asks management for an appropriately sized
uniform and vest for Ava.
1. Known Limitation: Ava’s inability to
wear the standard uniform and safety gear is
a physical condition related to pregnancy;
Ava needs an adjustment or change at work;
Ava’s representative has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Ava is qualified with the
reasonable accommodation of appropriate
gear.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #19/Temporary
Suspension of Essential Function(s): Darina,

PO 00000

Frm 00019

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54731

a pregnant police officer in the third month
of pregnancy, talks to human resources about
being taken off of patrol and put on light duty
for the remainder of her pregnancy to avoid
physical altercations such as subduing
suspects that may harm her pregnancy. The
department has an established light duty
program that it uses for officers with injuries
that occurred on the job.
1. Known Limitation: Darina has a need or
a problem related to maintaining the health
of her pregnancy; Darina needs an
adjustment or change at work; Darina has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: The suspension of the
essential functions of patrol duties is
temporary and could end ‘‘in the near future’’
(within generally forty weeks) And it appears
that the temporary suspension of the
essential function can be accommodated
through the light duty program.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship. In
determining if there is an undue hardship,
the employer cannot rely on the fact that this
type of modification is normally reserved for
those with on-the-job injuries. The fact that
the employer provides this type of
modification for other employees points to
this not being an undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #20/Temporary
Suspension of Essential Function(s): Rory
works in a fulfillment center where she is
usually assigned to a line where she has to
move packages that weigh 20 pounds. After
returning from work after giving birth, Rory
has a lifting restriction of 10 pounds due to
sciatica during her pregnancy. The restriction
is for 12 weeks. The employer does not have
an established light duty program. There are
other lines in the warehouse that do not
require lifting more than 10 pounds and
some of the packages on Rory’s usual line
weigh less than 10 pounds.
1. Known Limitation: Rory has a known
limitation related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
a related medical condition.
2. Qualified: The suspension of the
essential function of lifting packages that
weigh up to 20 pounds is temporary and
Rory could be able to perform the essential
function in the near future. It appears that the
temporary suspension of the essential
function could be accommodated by
temporarily suspending the requirement that
Rory lift more than 10 pounds or by assigning
her to a different line.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #21/Unpaid Leave: Tallah,
a newly hired cashier at a small bookstore,
has a miscarriage in the third month of
pregnancy and asks a supervisor for ten days
of leave to recover. As a new employee,
Tallah has only earned 2 days of paid leave.
The employer is not covered by the FMLA
and does not have a company policy
regarding the provision of unpaid leave, but
Tallah is covered by the PWFA.
1. Known limitation: Tallah’s need to
recover from the miscarriage is a physical or
mental condition related to pregnancy or
arising out of a medical condition related to

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54732

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

pregnancy; Tallah needs an adjustment or
change at work; Tallah has communicated
this information to the employer.
2. Qualified: After the reasonable
accommodation of leave, Tallah will be able
to do the essential functions of the position
with or without accommodation.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent an undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #22/Unpaid Leave for
Prenatal Appointments: Margot started
working at a retail store shortly after she
became pregnant. She has an uncomplicated
pregnancy. Because she has not worked at
the store very long, she has earned very little
leave and is not covered by the FMLA. In her
fifth month of pregnancy, she asks her
supervisor for the reasonable accommodation
of unpaid time off beyond the leave she has
earned to attend her regularly scheduled
prenatal appointments.
1. Known limitation: Margot’s need to
attend health care appointments is a need or
a problem related to maintaining her health
or the health of her pregnancy; Margot needs
an adjustment or change at work; Margot has
communicated the information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: Margot can do her job with
the reasonable accommodation of leave to
attend health care appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid time off (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #23/Unpaid Leave for
Recovery from Childbirth: Sofia, a custodian,
is pregnant and will need six to eight weeks
of leave to recover from childbirth. Sofia is
nervous about asking for leave so Sofia asks
her mother, who knows the owner, to do it
for her. The employer has a sick leave policy
but no policy for longer periods of leave.
Sofia does not qualify for FMLA leave.
1. Known limitation: Sofia’s need to
recover from childbirth is a physical
condition; Sofia needs an adjustment or
change at work; Sofia’s representative has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: After the reasonable
accommodation of leave, Sofia will be able to
do the essential functions of the position.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #24/Unpaid Leave for
Medical Appointments: Taylor, a newly
hired member of the waitstaff, requests time
off to attend therapy appointments for
postpartum depression. As a new employee,
Taylor has not yet accrued sick or personal
leave and is not covered by the FMLA. Taylor
asks her manager if there is some way that
she can take time off.
1. Known limitation: Taylor’s postpartum
depression is a medical condition related to
pregnancy, and she is seeking health care;
Taylor needs an adjustment or change at
work; Taylor has communicated this
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Taylor can do the essential
functions of the job with a reasonable

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

accommodation of time off to attend the
therapy appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent an undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #25/Unpaid Leave or
Schedule Change: Claudine is six months
pregnant and needs to have regular checkups. The clinic where Claudine gets her
health care is an hour drive away, and they
frequently get backed up and she has to wait
for her appointment. Depending on the time
of day, between commuting to the
appointment, waiting for the appointment,
and seeing her provider, Claudine may miss
all or most of an assigned day at work.
Claudine is not covered by the FMLA and
does not have any sick leave left. Claudine
asks human resources for a reasonable
accommodation such as time off or changes
in scheduling so she can attend her medical
appointments.
1. Known limitation: Claudine needs
health care related to her pregnancy;
Claudine needs an adjustment or change at
work; Claudine has communicated that
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Claudine can do the essential
functions of the job with a reasonable
accommodation of time off or a schedule
change to attend medical appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation of time off or a schedule
change (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #26/Telework: Raim, a
social worker, is in the seventh month of
pregnancy and is very fatigued as a result.
She asks her supervisor if she can telework
and see clients virtually so she can rest
between appointments.
1. Known limitation: Raim’s fatigue is a
physical condition related to pregnancy;
Raim needs an adjustment or change at work;
Raim has communicated that information to
the employer.
2. Qualified: Assuming the appointments
can be conducted virtually, Raim can
perform the essential functions of her job
with the reasonable accommodation of
working virtually. If there are certain
appointments that must be done in person,
the reasonable accommodation could be a
few days of telework a week and then other
accommodations that would give Raim time
to rest, such as assigning Raim in-person
appointments at times when traffic will be
light so that they are easy to get to or setting
up Raim’s assignments so that on the days
when she has in-person appointments she
has breaks between them. Or the reasonable
accommodation could be the temporary
suspension of the essential function of inperson appointments.
3. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #27/Temporary
Workspace/Possible Temporary Suspension
of an Essential Function: Brooke, a pregnant
research assistant in her first trimester of
pregnancy, asks the lead researcher on the
project for a temporary workspace that would
allow her to work in a well-ventilated area
because her work involves hazardous

PO 00000

Frm 00020

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

chemicals that her health care provider has
told her to avoid. She also points out that
there are several research projects she can
work on that do not involve exposure to
hazardous chemicals.
1. Known limitation: Brooke’s need to
avoid the chemicals is a physical or mental
condition related to maintaining the health of
her pregnancy; Brooke needs a change or
adjustment at work; Brooke has
communicated this information to the
employer.
2. Qualified: If working with hazardous
chemicals is an essential function of the job,
Brooke may be able to perform that function
with the accommodation of a well-ventilated
work area. If providing a well-ventilated
work area would be an undue hardship,
Brooke could still be qualified with the
temporary suspension of the essential
function of working with the hazardous
chemicals because Brooke’s inability to work
with hazardous chemicals is temporary, and
Brooke could perform the essential functions
in the near future (within generally forty
weeks). And it appears that her need to avoid
exposure to hazardous chemicals could also
be accommodated by allowing her to focus
on the other research projects.
3. The employer must provide an
accommodation such as a well-ventilated
space or another reasonable one, absent
undue hardship. If the employer cannot
accommodate Brooke in a way that allows
Brooke to continue to perform the essential
functions of the position, the employer must
consider alternative reasonable
accommodations, including temporarily
suspending one or more essential function(s),
absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #28/Temporary Transfer to
Different Location: Katherine, a budget
analyst who has cancer, is also pregnant,
which creates complications for her
treatment. She asks the manager for a
temporary transfer to an office in a larger city
that has a medical center that can address her
medical needs due to the combination of
cancer and pregnancy.
1. Known limitation: Katherine has a need
or problem related to maintaining her health
or the health of her pregnancy; Katherine
needs a change or adjustment at work:
Katherine has communicated that
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Katherine is able to do the
essential functions of her position with the
reasonable accommodation of a temporary
transfer to a different location.
3. As under the ADA, a PWFA reasonable
accommodation can include a workplace
change to facilitate medical treatment,
including accommodations such as leave, a
schedule change, or a temporary transfer to
a different work location needed in order to
obtain treatment. The employer must grant
the accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #29/Pumping Breast Milk:
Salma gave birth thirteen months ago and
wants to be able to pump breast milk at work.
Salma works at an employment agency that
sends her to different jobs for a day or week
at a time. Salma asks the person at the agency
who makes her assignments to only assign
her to employers who will allow her to take
a break to pump breast milk at work.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
1. Known limitation: Salma’s need to
express breast milk is a physical condition
related to lactation which is a related medical
condition; Salma needs a change or
adjustment at work; Salma has
communicated this information to the
covered entity.
2. Qualified: Salma is able to perform the
functions of the jobs to which she is assigned
with the reasonable accommodation of being
assigned to workplaces that will allow her to
pump at work.
3. The agency must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #30/Additional Breaks:
Afefa, a pregnant customer service agent,
requests two additional 10-minute rest breaks
and additional bathroom breaks as needed
during the workday. The employer
determines that these breaks would not pose
an undue hardship and grants the request.
Because of the additional breaks, Afefa
responds to three fewer calls during a shift.
Afefa’s supervisor should evaluate her
performance taking into account her
productivity while on duty, excluding
breaks. Penalizing an employee for failing to
meet production standards due to receipt of
additional breaks as a reasonable
accommodation would render the additional
breaks an ineffective accommodation. It also
may constitute retaliation for use of a
reasonable accommodation. However, if there
is evidence that Afefa’s lower production was
due not to the additional breaks, but rather
to misconduct (for example, if she has
frequent and unexcused absences to make or
receive personal phone calls) or other
performance issues, the employer may
consider the lower production levels
consistent with the employer’s production
and performance standards.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(j) Undue Hardship
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7)
uses the definition of ‘‘undue hardship’’
from section 101 of the ADA. The
PWFA provides that the term shall be
construed under the PWFA as it is
under the ADA and as set forth in these
regulations. The proposed rule, at (j)(1)
of this paragraph, reiterates the
definition of undue hardship provided
in the ADA regulations, which explains
that undue hardship means significant
difficulty or expense incurred by a
covered entity. The proposed rule then,
at (j)(2) of this paragraph, outlines some
factors to be considered when
determining if undue hardship exists.113
Consistent with the ADA, a covered
entity that claims that a reasonable
accommodation will cause an undue
hardship must consider whether there
are other reasonable accommodations it
can provide, absent undue hardship.114
Additionally, if the employer can only
provide a part of the reasonable
113 29 CFR 1630.2(p).
114 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodations, supra note 44, at text after n.116.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

accommodation absent undue
hardship—for example, the employer
can provide six weeks of leave absent
undue hardship but the eight weeks that
the employee is seeking would cause
undue hardship—the employer must
provide the reasonable accommodation
up to the point of creating an undue
hardship. Thus, in the example, the
employer would have to provide the six
weeks of leave and then consider if
there are other reasonable
accommodations it could provide that
would not cause an undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #31/Undue Hardship:
Patricia, a convenience store clerk, requests
that she be allowed to go from working fulltime to part-time for the last 3 months of her
pregnancy due to extreme fatigue. The store
assigns two clerks per shift, and if Patricia’s
hours are reduced, the other clerk’s workload
will increase significantly beyond his ability
to handle his responsibilities. The store
determines that such an arrangement will
result in inadequate coverage to serve
customers in a timely manner, keep the
shelves stocked, and maintain store security.
Based on these facts, the employer likely can
show undue hardship based on the
significant disruption to its operations and,
therefore, can refuse to reduce Patricia’s
hours. The employer, however, should
explore whether any other reasonable
accommodation will assist Patricia without
causing undue hardship, such as providing a
stool and allowing rest breaks throughout the
shift.
Example 1636.3 #32/Undue Hardship:
Shirin, a dental hygienist who is undergoing
IVF treatments, is fatigued and needs to
attend medical appointments near her house
every other day. She asks her supervisor if
she can telework for the next 3 months. Fulltime telework may be an undue hardship for
the employer because Shirin’s essential
functions include treating patients at the
dental office. However, the employer must
consider other reasonable accommodations,
such as part-time telework while Shirin can
perform the billing functions of her job, a
schedule that would allow Shirin breaks
between patients, part-time work, or a
reduced schedule.

An employer’s claim that the
accommodation a worker seeks would
cause a safety risk to co-workers or
clients will be assessed under the
PWFA’s undue hardship standard. For
example, consider a pregnant worker in
a busy fulfillment center that has
narrow aisles between the shelves of
products. The worker asks for the
reasonable accommodation of a cart to
use while they are walking through the
aisles filling orders. The employer’s
claim that the aisles are too narrow and
its concern for the safety of other
workers being bumped by the cart
would be a defense based on undue
hardship, specifically § 1636.3(j)(2)(v)
(‘‘the impact of the accommodation
upon the operation of the facility,

PO 00000

Frm 00021

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54733

including the impact on the ability of
other employees to perform their duties
and the impact on the facility’s ability
to conduct business.’’). As with other
requested reasonable accommodations,
if a particular reasonable
accommodation causes an undue
hardship because of safety, the
employer must consider if there are
other reasonable accommodations that
would not do so. Importantly, claims by
employers that workers create a safety
risk merely by being pregnant (as
opposed to a safety risk that stems from
a pregnancy-related limitation) should
be addressed under Title VII’s bona fide
occupational qualification (BFOQ)
standard and not under the PWFA.115
1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—
Temporary Suspension of an Essential
Function
To address that under the PWFA an
employer may have to accommodate an
employee’s temporary inability to
perform an essential function, the
proposed rule adds additional factors
that may be considered when
determining if the temporary
suspension of an essential function
causes an undue hardship. These
additional factors include consideration
of the length of time that the employee
or applicant will be unable to perform
the essential function(s); whether,
through the methods listed in
1636.3(f)(2)(iii) (describing potential
reasonable accommodations related to
the temporary suspension of essential
functions) or otherwise, there is work
for the employee or applicant to
accomplish; the nature of the essential
function, including its frequency;
whether the covered entity has provided
other employees or applicants in similar
positions who are unable to perform
essential function(s) of their positions
with temporary suspensions of those
functions and other duties; if necessary,
whether there are other employees,
temporary employees, or third parties
who can perform or be temporarily
hired to perform the essential
function(s) in question; and whether the
115 See, e.g., UAW v. Johnson Controls, 499 U.S.
187 (1991) (striking down employer’s fetal
protection policy that limited the opportunities of
women); Everts v. Sushi Brokers LLC, 247 F. Supp.
3d 1075, 1082–83 (D. Ariz. 2017) (relying on
Johnson Controls and denying BFOQ in a case
regarding a pregnant worker as a restaurant server
noting that ‘‘[u]nlike cases involving prisoners and
dangers to customers where a BFOQ defense may
be colorable, the present situation is exactly the
type of case that Title VII guards against’’); EEOC
v. New Prime, Inc., 42 F. Supp. 3d 1201, 1214 (W.D.
Mo. 2014) (relying on Johnson Controls and denying
a BFOQ allegedly in place for the ‘‘privacy’’ and
‘‘safety’’ of women workers); Enforcement Guidance
on Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 11, at
I(B)(1)(c).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54734

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

essential function(s) can be postponed
or remain unperformed for any length of
time and, if so, for how long.
As with other reasonable
accommodations, if the covered entity
can establish that accommodating a
worker’s temporary suspension of an
essential function(s) would impose an
undue hardship if extended beyond a
certain period of time, the covered
entity would only be required to
provide that accommodation for the
period of time that it does not impose
an undue hardship. For example,
consider the situation where an
employee seeks to have an essential
function suspended for six months. The
employer can go without the function
being done for four months, but after
that, it will be an undue hardship. The
employer must accommodate the
worker’s inability to perform the
essential function for the four months
and then consider whether there are
other reasonable accommodations that it
can provide, absent undue hardship.
1636.3(j)(4) Undue Hardship—
Predictable Assessments
The proposed rule adds to the
definition of ‘‘undue hardship’’ a
paragraph titled ‘‘predictable
assessments.’’ The Commission
anticipates that many accommodations
sought under the PWFA will be for
modest or minor changes in the
workplace for limitations that will be
temporary. Without the accommodation,
a pregnant worker may quit their job or
risk their health, thereby frustrating the
purpose of the Act. Thus, in the
proposed regulation, the Commission
identifies a limited number of simple
modifications that will, in virtually all
cases, be found to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship when requested by an
employee due to pregnancy.
Under the ADA, the Commission has
determined that certain conditions will,
in virtually all cases, result in a
determination of coverage as
disabilities.116 In a similar manner, the
Commission seeks to improve how
quickly employees will be able to
receive certain simple, common
accommodations for pregnancy under
the PWFA and to reduce litigation. The
identification of certain modifications as
‘‘predictable assessments’’ does not alter
the definition of undue hardship or
deprive a covered entity of the
opportunity to bring forward facts to
demonstrate a proposed accommodation
116 See 29 CFR 1630.2(j)(3). There, as here, the
Commission did not supplant or alter the
individualized inquiry required by the statute but
provided common examples to illustrate its
application in frequently occurring circumstances.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

imposes an undue hardship for its
business under its own particular
circumstances. Instead, it explains that
in virtually all cases a limited number
of simple modifications are reasonable
accommodations that do not impose
undue hardship when requested by an
employee due to pregnancy.
These modifications are: (1) allowing
an employee to carry water and drink,
as needed, in the employee’s work area;
(2) allowing an employee additional
restroom breaks; (3) allowing an
employee whose work requires standing
to sit and whose work requires sitting to
stand, and (4) allowing an employee
breaks, as needed, to eat and drink.117
The proposed rule includes this
addition after reviewing the information
provided by legislators and
congressional witnesses that these
changes are regularly requested by
pregnant workers and that in practice
these modifications are virtually always
reasonable accommodations that do not
impose an undue hardship.118
Additionally, certain State laws that are
analogous to the PWFA single out these
modifications as ones that cannot be
challenged as an undue hardship or
where different rules regarding
documentation may apply.119
117 The first and fourth categories of predictable
accommodations are related but separate. The first
category of accommodations addresses a worker’s
ability to carry water on the worker’s person to
where the worker carries out job duties, facilitating
ready access to water without requiring the worker
to take a break to access and drink it. The
Commission recognizes that there may be work
locations where, unlike the presence of water in
most (if not all) work locations, the presence of food
or non-water beverages could contribute to an
undue hardship due to safety or other issues, such
that a worker must take a break from the location
in which the worker performs her duties in order
to access and consume those items. The fourth
category of accommodations addresses a worker’s
ability to take additional, short breaks in performing
work (either at the worker’s work location or a
break location) to eat and drink (including
beverages which are not water).
118 See H.R. Rep.117–27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29, 113;
Fighting for Fairness, supra note 2, at 4 (statement
of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici); Long Over Due, supra
note 2, at 7 (statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 25
(statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice President of
Government Affairs and Public Policy, Greater
Louisville, Inc.); 83 (statement of Rep. Barbara Lee);
168 Cong. Rec. H10,527 (daily ed. Dec. 23, 2022)
(statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 168 Cong. Rec.
S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen.
Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S7,079 (daily
ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey,
Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. H2,324 (daily ed. May 14, 2021)
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici).
119 See Wash. Rev. Code 43.10.005(1)(d)
(prohibiting the undue hardship defense if the
accommodation is frequent, longer, or flexible
restroom breaks; modifying a no food or drink
policy; providing seating or allowing employee to
sit more frequently if the job requires standing; and
certain lifting restrictions); Mass. Gen. Laws ch.
151B(4)(1E)(c) (limiting medical documentation if
the accommodation is more frequent restroom,
food, or water breaks, and certain lifting
restrictions).

PO 00000

Frm 00022

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Finally, the Commission emphasizes
that adoption of the predictable
assessments provision does not alter the
meaning of the terms ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ or ‘‘undue hardship.’’
Likewise, it does not change the
requirement that, as under the
regulation implementing the ADA,
employers must conduct an
individualized assessment when
determining whether a modification is a
reasonable accommodation that will
impose an undue hardship. Instead, the
proposed paragraph informs covered
entities that for these specific and
simple modifications, in virtually all
cases, the Commission expects that
individualized assessments will result
in a finding that the modification is a
reasonable accommodation that does
not impose an undue hardship.
Below, the Commission provides
some examples regarding predictable
assessments and how they can be
analyzed. The Commission seeks
comment on whether the adoption of
the predictable assessment approach
facilitates compliance with the PWFA
by identifying some of the
accommodations most commonly
requested by workers due to pregnancy
that are simple, inexpensive, and easily
available. The Commission further seeks
comment on whether different, fewer, or
additional types of accommodations
should be included in the ‘‘predictable
assessment’’ category and whether the
category should include predictable
assessments for childbirth and/or
related medical conditions.
Examples Regarding Predictable
Assessments
Example 1636.3 #33/Predictable
Assessments: Amara, a quality inspector for
a manufacturing company, experiences
painful swelling in her legs, ankles, and feet
during the final three months of her
pregnancy. Her job requires standing for long
periods of time. Amara asks the person who
assigns her daily work for a stool so that she
can sit while she performs her job. Amara’s
swelling in her legs and ankles is a physical
condition related to pregnancy. Amara’s
request is for a modification that will
virtually always be a reasonable
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship. The employer argues that it
has never provided a stool to any other
worker who complained of difficulty
standing but points to nothing that suggests
that this modification is not reasonable or
that it would impose an undue hardship in
this particular case on the operation of the
employer’s business. The request must be
granted.
Example 1636.3 #34/Predictable
Assessments: Jazmin, a pregnant teacher who
typically is only able to use the bathroom
when her class is at lunch, requests
additional bathroom breaks during her 6th

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
month of pregnancy. Additional bathroom
breaks are one of the modifications that will
virtually always be found to be a reasonable
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship. The employer argues that
finding an adult to watch over the teacher’s
class when she needs to take a bathroom
break imposes an undue hardship, but
Jazmin points out that there are several
teachers with nearby classrooms, some
classrooms have aides, and there is an
administrative assistant who works in the
front office, and that with a few minutes’
notice, one of them would be able to either
stand in the hallway between classes to allow
Jazmin a trip to the bathroom or, in the case
of the administrative assistant, sit in the
teacher’s classroom for a few minutes several
times a day. The employer has not
established that providing Jazmin with
additional bathroom breaks imposes an
undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #35/Predictable
Assessments: Addison, a clerk responsible
for receiving and filing construction plans for
development proposals, needs to maintain a
regular intake of water throughout the day to
maintain a healthy pregnancy. They ask their
manager if an exception can be made to the
office policy prohibiting liquids at
workstations. The ability to access water
during the day is one of the modifications
that will virtually always be found to be a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship. Here, although
the manager decides against allowing
Addison to bring water into their
workstation, he proposes that a table be
placed just outside the workstation where
water can be easily accessed and gives
permission for Addison to access this water
as needed. The employer has satisfied its
obligation to provide reasonable
accommodation.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(j)(5) Undue Hardship—Cannot
Be Demonstrated by Assumption or
Speculation
Lastly, the proposed rule provides
that a covered entity cannot
demonstrate that a reasonable
accommodation imposes an undue
hardship based on an assumption or
speculation that other employees might
seek a reasonable accommodation—
even the same reasonable
accommodation—or the same employee
might seek another reasonable
accommodation in the future.120
Relatedly, a covered entity that receives
numerous requests for the same or
similar accommodation at the same time
(for example, parking spaces closer to
the factory) cannot deny all of them
simply because processing the volume
of current or anticipated requests is, or
would be, burdensome or because it
cannot grant all of them as requested.
Rather, the covered entity must evaluate
and provide reasonable
120 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at n.113.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

accommodations unless or until doing
so imposes an undue hardship. The
covered entity may point to past and
cumulative costs or burden of
accommodations that have already been
granted to other employees when
claiming the hardship posed by another
request for the same or similar
accommodation.
1636.3(k) Interactive Process
General Definition and Additions
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7)
refers to the definitions from the ADA
that apply to the PWFA and states that
this includes the ‘‘interactive process,’’
a term from the ADA, and how it ‘‘will
typically be used to determine an
appropriate reasonable
accommodation.’’ The proposed rule
largely adopts the explanation of the
interactive process in the regulations
implementing the ADA so that the
interactive process under the PWFA
generally mirrors the same process
under the ADA.121 The proposed rule
also notes that there are no rigid steps
that must be followed when engaging in
the interactive process under the PWFA.
The proposed regulation makes the
following adjustments to the definition
of interactive process from the ADA in
order to apply it to the PWFA.
First, the definition replaces
references to ‘‘individual with
disability’’ and similar terms with
‘‘employee with known limitations’’ and
similar terms.
Second, the proposed rule does not
include the words ‘‘precise limitations
resulting from the disability’’ from the
ADA’s explanation of ‘‘interactive
process.’’ As a result, the second
sentence is: ‘‘This process should
identify the known limitations and
potential reasonable accommodations
that could overcome those limitations.’’
Under the ADA, the interactive process
may begin with the individual
identifying the ‘‘precise limitations’’ of
the disability as well as identifying
potential reasonable accommodations
that could overcome those
limitations.122 It is not necessary under
the PWFA that the ‘‘precise limitation’’
be identified because the statute makes
clear that an individual is entitled to an
accommodation if the ‘‘limitation’’ is
known.
Step-by-Step Process
The Appendix to the ADA
Regulations provides an example of the
steps in a reasonable accommodation
process and, for ease of reference, the
Commission includes it below with
121 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(3).
122 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00023

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54735

minor changes reflecting the PWFA’s
requirement to provide reasonable
accommodations for known
limitations.123 A covered entity may use
these steps and its established ADArelated processes to address requests for
reasonable accommodations for workers
under PWFA. As with the ADA, a
covered entity should respond
expeditiously to a request for reasonable
accommodation and act promptly to
provide the reasonable
accommodation.124
When an employee with a known
limitation has requested a reasonable
accommodation regarding the
performance of the job, the covered
entity, using a problem-solving
approach, should:
a. Analyze the particular job involved
and determine its purpose and essential
functions;
b. Consult with the employee with a
known limitation to ascertain what kind
of accommodation is necessary given
the known limitation;
c. In consultation with the employee
with the known limitation, identify
potential accommodations and assess
the effectiveness each would have in
enabling the employee to perform the
essential functions of the position. If the
employee’s limitation means that they
are temporarily unable to perform one
or more essential functions of the
position, the parties must also consider
whether suspending the performance of
one or more essential functions may be
a part of the reasonable accommodation
if the known limitation is temporary in
nature and the employee could perform
the essential function(s) in the near
future (within generally forty weeks);
and
d. Consider the preference of the
employee to be accommodated and
select and implement the
accommodation that is most appropriate
for both the employee and the covered
entity.125
Steps (b)–(d) outlined above can be
adapted and applied to requests for
reasonable accommodations related to
the application process and to benefits
and privileges of employment. In those
situations, in step (c), the consideration
should be how to enable the applicant
with a known limitation to be
considered for the position in question
or how to provide an employee with a
known limitation with the ability to
123 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
124 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 10.
Following the steps laid out for the interactive
process is not a defense to liability if the employer
fails to provide a reasonable accommodation that it
could have provided absent undue hardship.
125 See 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54736

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

enjoy equal benefits and privileges of
employment.
In many instances, the appropriate
reasonable accommodation may be
obvious to either or both the employer
and the employee with the known
limitation, such that it may not be
necessary to proceed in this step-by-step
fashion. Although covered entities are
cautioned that under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(2) and proposed § 1636.4(b) they
cannot unilaterally require a worker
with a limitation to accept a specific
accommodation, the step-by-step
approach may not be necessary when,
for example, a pregnant worker requests
certain modifications such as allowing
the employee to drink water regularly
during the workday, additional restroom
breaks, modifications in policies
regarding sitting or standing, or
modifications in polices regarding
eating or drinking. These requested
modifications will virtually always be
found to be reasonable accommodations
that do not impose an undue hardship
and are therefore unlikely to require
significant discussion in the interactive
process, and there may be other
accommodations that are equally easy to
provide. However, in some instances,
neither the employee or applicant
requesting the accommodation, nor the
covered entity, may be able to readily
identify an appropriate accommodation.
For example, an applicant needing an
accommodation may not know enough
about the equipment used by the
covered entity or the exact nature of the
work site to suggest an appropriate
accommodation. Likewise, the covered
entity may not know enough about the
employee’s known limitation and its
effect on the performance of the job to
suggest an appropriate accommodation.
In these situations, the steps above may
be helpful. In addition, parties may
consult outside resources such as State
or local entities, non-profit
organizations, or the Job
Accommodation Network (JAN) for
ideas regarding potential reasonable
accommodations.126
Failure To Engage in Interactive Process
Failing to engage in the interactive
process, in and of itself, is not a
violation of the PWFA just as it is not
a violation of the ADA. However, a
covered entity’s failure to initiate or
participate in the interactive process
with the employee or applicant after
receiving a request for reasonable
accommodation could result in liability
126 The Job Accommodation Network (JAN)
provides free assistance regarding workplace
accommodation issues. See generally Job
Accommodation Network, https://askjan.org/ (last
visited July 28, 2023).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

if the employee or applicant does not
receive a reasonable accommodation
even though one is available that would
not have posed an undue hardship.127
Relatedly, an employee’s unilateral
withdrawal from or refusal to
participate in the interactive process can
constitute sufficient grounds for
denying the reasonable accommodation.
1636.3(l) Supporting Documentation
In determining when and what types
of documentation a covered entity may
request of an employee or applicant to
support their request for a reasonable
accommodation, the Commission is
guided by existing rules under the ADA,
differences between the relevant
statutory provisions of the ADA and the
PWFA, and the recognition that
accommodations under the PWFA may
be small, temporary modifications that
may not always lend themselves to
medical documentation.
First, and most importantly, a covered
entity is not required to seek supporting
documentation from a worker who seeks
an accommodation under the PWFA.
For example, under the ADA, an
employer may simply discuss with the
employee or applicant the nature of the
limitation and the need for an
accommodation; 128 the same is true
under the PWFA, and this approach is
entirely consistent with the PWFA’s
emphasis on the importance of the
interactive process as described in
§ 1636.3(k).
Additionally, the Commission notes
that pregnant workers may experience
limitations and, therefore, require
accommodations, before they have had
any medical appointments. For
example, some workers may experience
morning sickness and nausea early in
their pregnancies and need
accommodations such as later start
times, breaks, or telework.
The Commission further recognizes
that it may be difficult for a pregnant
employee to obtain an immediate
appointment with a health care provider
early in a pregnancy. For example,
according to one study, almost a quarter
of women did not receive prenatal care
during their first trimester, and 12% of
births take place in counties with
limited or no access to maternity
care.129 Further, even for those who
127 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 10.
128 Id. at Question 6.
129 Medical care often is not available or
immediately obtained early in a pregnancy. See,
e.g., Joyce A. Martin et al., Ctrs. for Disease Control,
Births in the United States, 2019 2 (2020), https://
www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/databriefs/db387-H.pdf
(indicating that in 2019, almost 23% of women who
gave birth did not receive prenatal care during the

PO 00000

Frm 00024

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

have access to medical care, known
limitations may develop between
scheduled medical appointments, such
that requiring documentation in those
situations would increase the cost to the
worker and may require them to take
additional leave in order to obtain the
documentation. Therefore, consistent
with the purposes of the PWFA, the
Commission encourages employers who
choose to require documentation, when
that is permitted under this regulation,
to grant interim accommodations as a
best practice if an employee indicates
that they have tried to obtain
documentation but there is a delay in
obtaining it, and the documentation will
be provided at a later date. For example,
if a pregnant employee requests an
accommodation for a pregnancy-related
limitation in lifting, which may involve
the temporary suspension of an
essential function, but the employee
will not be able to provide a note from
a health care practitioner for several
weeks, the employer should consider
providing an interim reasonable
accommodation.130
If a covered entity decides to require
supporting documentation, it is only
permitted to do so under the proposed
rule if it is reasonable to require
documentation under the circumstances
for the covered entity to determine
whether to grant the accommodation.
When requiring documentation is
reasonable, the employer is also limited
to requiring documentation that itself is
reasonable. The preamble, rule, and
appendix set out examples of when it
would not be reasonable for the
employer to require documentation. The
proposed rule also defines ‘‘reasonable
documentation’’ as documentation that
describes or confirms (1) the physical or
first trimester); Christina Brigance et al., March of
Dimes, Nowhere to Go: Maternity Care Deserts
Across the U.S. 4 (2022), https://
www.marchofdimes.org/research/maternity-caredeserts-report.aspx (reporting that approximately 12
percent of births in the United States occur in
counties with limited or no access to maternity
care); American Pregnancy Association, Your First
Prenatal Visit, https://americanpregnancy.org/
healthy-pregnancy/planning/first-prenatal-visit/
(last visited Apr. 3, 2023) (stating that the first
prenatal visit for individuals who did not meet with
their health care provider pre-pregnancy is
generally around 8 weeks after their last menstrual
period); University of Utah Health, Pregnancy—
First Trimester, Weeks 1–13, https://
healthcare.utah.edu/womenshealth/pregnancybirth/1st-trimester (last visited Apr. 3, 2023) (stating
that doctors recommend scheduling the first
obstetric appointment between the 8th and 10th
week of pregnancy); Boston Medical Center, Newly
Pregnant?, https://www.bmc.org/newly-pregnant
(last visited Apr. 3, 2023) (stating that the first
prenatal appointment will be scheduled between
the 8th and 12th weeks of pregnancy).
130 See Best Practices State Government, supra
note 100. See also above discussion on Interim
Reasonable Accommodations.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
mental condition; (2) that it is related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions; and (3) that a change or
adjustment at work is needed for that
reason.
As explained below, and set forth at
§ 1636.4(a)(3), an employer may not
defend the denial of an accommodation
under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) based on
the lack of documentation if its request
for documentation does not comport
with the proposed rule. In these
situations, the worker will have met the
requirements of § 1636.3(d)(3), and the
employer will have sufficient
information regarding the known
limitation and the need for
accommodation. Further, requests for
documentation that violate the proposed
rule may be a violation of the
prohibition on retaliation and coercion
in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), as set forth in
proposed §§ 1636.5(f)(1)(iv), (v) and
(f)(2)(iv), (v) because they may deter
workers from seeking accommodations.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(l)(1) Reasonable To Require
Documentation Under the
Circumstances
Under the proposed rule, a covered
entity may require documentation only
if it is reasonable to do so under the
circumstances for the covered entity to
decide whether to grant the
accommodation. The regulation
provides several examples of when it
would not be reasonable for the
employer to require documentation.
First, it is not reasonable for the
employer to require documentation
when both the limitation and the need
for reasonable accommodation are
obvious.131 For example, when an
obviously pregnant 132 worker states or
confirms they are pregnant and asks for
a different size uniform or related safety
gear, both the limitation and the need
for the accommodation are obvious, and
‘‘known’’ under the statute, and the
employer may not require supporting
documentation. If the pregnancy is
obvious, and the worker states or
confirms that they are pregnant, but the
limitation related to the pregnancy or
131 This is similar to the ADA under which
requesting documentation when the disability and
the need for the accommodation are obvious or
otherwise already known would violate the
prohibition on disability-related inquires without a
business justification. Enforcement Guidance on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations of Employees Under the ADA,
Question 5 (2000), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-disability-relatedinquiries-and-medical-examinations-employees
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance on DisabilityRelated Inquires].
132 Early or initial physical indications of
pregnancy may not be sufficient to make it obvious
to an employer that an employee is pregnant.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

parameters of a potential
accommodation are not, the employer
may only request documentation
relevant to the accommodation. For
example, if a worker who is obviously
pregnant, states or confirms that they
are pregnant, and asks to avoid lifting
heavy objects, it may be reasonable for
the employer to request documentation
about the limitation such as the extent
of the lifting restriction and its expected
duration, but not about the pregnancy
itself. Similarly, if an obviously
pregnant employee requests the
reasonable accommodation of leave
related to childbirth and recovery and
states or confirms that they are pregnant
it may be reasonable for the employer to
require documentation regarding the
amount of time the worker anticipates
needing to recover from childbirth, but
not reasonable to require documentation
of the pregnancy itself.
Second, when the employee or
applicant has already provided the
employer with sufficient information to
substantiate that the worker has a
known limitation and needs a change or
adjustment at work, it is not reasonable
for the employer to require
documentation. If a worker has already
provided documentation stating that
because of their recent cesarean section,
they should not lift over 20 pounds for
two months, the employer may not
require further documentation during
those two months because the employee
has already provided the employer with
sufficient information to substantiate
that they have a limitation and need a
change at work.
A third example of when it is not
reasonable for an employer to require
documentation is when a worker at any
time during their pregnancy states or
confirms that they are pregnant and
seeks one of the following
accommodations: (1) carrying water and
drinking, as needed; (2) taking
additional restroom breaks; (3) sitting,
for those whose work requires standing,
and standing, for those whose work
requires sitting; and (4) breaks, as
needed, to eat and drink. It is not
reasonable to require documentation,
beyond self-attestation, when a worker
is pregnant and seeks one of the four
listed modifications because these are a
small set of commonly sought
accommodations that are widely known
to be needed during an uncomplicated
pregnancy and where documentation
would not be easily obtainable or
necessary. As noted above, particularly
early in pregnancy, employees and
applicants are less likely to have sought
or been able to obtain an appointment
with a health care provider for their
pregnancy. Further, they may not be

PO 00000

Frm 00025

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54737

able to obtain an appointment with a
health care provider repeatedly on short
notice for every limitation, as each
becomes apparent. The Commission
notes that this position is consistent
with the overarching goal of the PWFA
to assist workers affected by pregnancy
to remain on the job by providing them
with simple accommodations quickly.
A fourth example of when it is not
reasonable to require documentation is
when the limitation for which an
accommodation is needed involves
lactation. Usually, beginning around or
shortly after birth, lactation occurs. As
the initiation of lactation around birth is
nearly universal, the Commission
considers the fact of breastfeeding
obvious, such that it will not be
reasonable for an employer to require
documentation regarding lactation or
pumping. Pragmatically, the
Commission notes that health care
providers may not be able to provide
documentation regarding whether a
worker is pumping, nor the types of
accommodations needed in order to
pump breast milk.133 Of course, not all
workers can or choose to breastfeed;
those who do elect to breastfeed do so
for widely varying lengths of time.
Although the proposed rule states that
it is generally not reasonable for an
employer to require supporting
documentation for lactation or
pumping, an employer will not violate
the proposed rule simply by asking the
employee whether they require an
appropriate place to express breastmilk
while at a worksite. Employee
confirmation—or a simple request to
pump at work—is sufficient
confirmation.
If the request for supporting
documentation was not reasonable
under the circumstances for the covered
entity to determine whether to grant the
accommodation, a covered entity cannot
defend the denial of an accommodation
based on the lack of documentation
provided by the worker, as set forth in
proposed § 1636.4(a)(3). Further,
proposed § 1636.5(f) states that it could
violate the retaliation and coercion
provisions of the PWFA if a covered
entity requires the submission of
supporting documentation that is not
reasonable under the circumstances to
determine whether to grant the
accommodation because, for example,
(1) both the limitation and the need for
reasonable accommodation are obvious;
(2) the employee or applicant already
has provided the employer with
sufficient information to substantiate
133 See supra note 109, for discussion of the
PUMP Act and the types of accommodations that
may be requested with regard to pumping.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54738

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

that the individual has a known
limitation and needs a change or
adjustment at work; (3) a pregnant
worker is seeking one of the
modifications listed at 1636.3(j)(4); or
(4) the accommodation requested
involves lactation.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Example 1636.3 #36/Documentation: An
employer adopts a policy requiring everyone
who requests a reasonable accommodation to
provide medical documentation in support of
the request. Cora, a production worker who
is 8 months pregnant, requests additional
bathroom breaks, and the employer applies
the policy to her, refusing to provide the
accommodation until she submits medical
documentation. Cora therefore makes a
medical appointment that she does not need
and brings in documentation to establish that
she is pregnant and has a physical condition
that requires additional bathroom breaks. The
employer grants the requested
accommodation shortly before Cora gives
birth. Despite the fact that the
accommodation was granted, this employer
may have violated the PWFA, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(a) and/or 2000gg–2(f).
Example 1636.3 #37/Documentation: An
employer adopts a policy requiring everyone
who requests a reasonable accommodation to
provide medical documentation in support of
the request. Fourteen months after giving
birth, Alex wants to continue to pump
breastmilk at work, explains that to her
supervisor, and asks, as a reasonable
accommodation, for breaks to pump and that
the room that is provided have a chair, a
table, and access to electricity and running
water. Alex’s employer refuses to provide the
accommodations unless Alex provides
supporting documentation from her health
care provider. Alex cannot provide the
information, so she stops pumping. The
employer cannot use the lack of
documentation as a defense to the denial of
the accommodation because documentation
was not reasonable under the circumstances
for the employer to determine whether to
grant to accommodation, as set forth in
proposed § 1636.4(a)(3).

1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation
When it is reasonable to require
documentation under the circumstances
for the covered entity to determine
whether to grant the accommodation,
the covered entity is permitted to
require reasonable documentation,
including from a health care provider.
The proposed rule defines ‘‘reasonable
documentation’’ as documentation that
describes or confirms: (1) the physical
or mental condition; (2) that it is related
to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; and (3) that a
change or adjustment at work is needed
for that reason. For example, if an
employee asks for leave as a reasonable
accommodation to attend therapy
appointments due to anxiety early in the
employee’s pregnancy, the employer
could, but is not required to, ask for

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

documentation confirming that there is
a physical or mental condition that is
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, and information about how
frequent and long the leave would need
to be.
Adopting the longstanding approach
under the ADA, proposed
§ 1636.4(f)(1)(v) and (f)(2)(v) explain
that if an employee or applicant
provides documentation that is
sufficient, continued efforts by the
covered entity to require that the
individual provide more documentation
could be a violation of the PWFA’s
prohibitions on retaliation and coercion.
However, if a covered entity requests
additional information based on a good
faith belief that the documentation the
employee submitted is insufficient, it
would not be liable for retaliation or
coercion.134
The Commission seeks comment
regarding this proposed approach to
documentation, including: (1) whether
this approach strikes the correct balance
between what an employee or applicant
can provide and the interests of the
covered entity; (2) whether it is always
reasonable under the circumstances for
covered entities to require confirmation
of pregnancy beyond self-attestation
when the pregnancy is not obvious; (3)
if allowed, whether the confirmation of
a non-obvious pregnancy should be
limited to less invasive methods such as
the confirmation of a pregnancy through
a urine test; (4) the ability of employees
or applicants to obtain relevant
information from a health care provider,
particularly early in pregnancy; and (5)
whether there are other common
limitations that occur early in
pregnancy, such as fatigue or morning
sickness, for which an employer should
not be permitted to require
documentation beyond self-attestation.
1636.3(l)(3) Appropriate Health Care
Provider To Provide Documentation
If the covered entity meets the
requirements laid out above to request
documentation and does so, the covered
entity may request documentation from
an appropriate health care provider in
the particular situation. An appropriate
provider may vary depending on the
situation; the proposed regulation
contains a non-exhaustive list of
possible health care providers that is
based on the non-exhaustive list for the
ADA.135 The Commission seeks
comment on whether other types of
134 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at n.33;
Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related
Inquiries, supra note 114, at Question 11.
135 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 6.

PO 00000

Frm 00026

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

health care providers should be
included on this list.
The Commission does not believe that
it will be practical or necessary for a
covered entity to request or require that
an employee be examined by a health
care provider of the covered entity’s
choosing based on the PWFA’s lower
threshold for requiring reasonable
accommodations, the temporary
duration of PWFA accommodations,
and the minimal nature of at least some
of the most common reasonable
accommodations associated with
general limitations of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
The Commission seeks comment
about whether there are situations in
which an employer should be permitted
to require such an examination, what
limits should be placed on such a
process, and what effect allowing such
an examination may have on the
willingness of workers to request
accommodations under the PWFA.
1636.3(l)(4) Confidentiality
The PWFA does not include a
provision specifically requiring covered
entities to maintain the confidentiality
of medical information obtained in
support of accommodation requests
under the PWFA. However, applicants,
employees, and former employees
covered by the PWFA also are covered
by the ADA.136 Under the ADA, covered
entities are required to keep medical
documentation of applicants,
employees, and former employees
confidential, with limited exceptions.137
These ADA rules on keeping medical
information confidential apply to all
medical information, including medical
information voluntarily provided as part
of the reasonable accommodation
process, and, therefore, include medical
information obtained under the PWFA.
Moreover, as explained in § 1636.5(f), an
employer’s intentional disclosure of
medical information obtained through
PWFA’s reasonable accommodation
process may violate the PWFA’s
prohibition on retaliation and/or
coercion.
Section 1636.4 Prohibited Practices
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1 sets out five
possible violations involving the
136 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(5)(a) & 4 (ADA); 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(1)(B)(i) & (3)(A).
137 29 CFR 1630.14(b) & (c); Enforcement
Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 114, at text accompanying nn.9–10; EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment DisabilityRelated Questions and Medical Examinations, at
text accompanying n.6 (1995), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-preemployment-disability-relatedquestions-and-medical.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
provision of reasonable
accommodations.
1636.4(a) Failing To Provide Reasonable
Accommodation
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) prohibits a
covered entity from failing to make a
reasonable accommodation for a
qualified employee or applicant with a
known limitation unless the covered
entity can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship on the operation of its
business. This provision of the PWFA
uses the same language as the ADA, and
the proposed rule likewise uses the
language from the corresponding ADA
regulation, replacing references to
‘‘individual with a disability’’ and
similar terms with ‘‘employee with a
known limitation’’ and similar terms.138
Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) uses the
same operative language as the ADA,
the Commission proposes interpreting it
in a similar manner.
This section is violated when a
covered entity denies a reasonable
accommodation to a qualified employee
or applicant with a known limitation,
absent undue hardship. As under the
ADA, however, a covered entity does
not violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
merely by refusing to engage in the
interactive process; for a violation, there
also must have been a reasonable
accommodation that the employer could
have provided absent undue hardship.
1636.4(a)(1) Unnecessary Delay in
Responding to a Request for a
Reasonable Accommodation
Given that pregnancy-related
limitations are frequently temporary, a
delay in providing an accommodation
may mean that the period necessitating
the accommodation could pass without
action simply because of the delay.139
Proposed § 1636.4(a)(1) addresses this
issue. As with the ADA, an unnecessary
delay in responding to a request for a
reasonable accommodation may result
in a violation of the PWFA if the delay
results in a failure to provide a
reasonable accommodation.140 This can
be true even if the reasonable
accommodation is eventually provided,
when the delay was unnecessary.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

138 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(A); 29 CFR 1630.9(a).
139 See, e.g., Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 96
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici) (praising the
PWFA because it would allow pregnant workers to
get accommodations without waiting months or
years; 168 Cong. Rec. S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22,
2022) (statement of Sen. Robert Casey, Jr.) (noting
that ‘‘pregnant workers need immediate relief to
remain healthy and on the job’’).
140 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 44, at Question 10,
n.38.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

The factors set out in § 1636.4(a)(1)
include the same factors that are used
when determining if a delay in the
provision of a reasonable
accommodation violates the ADA.141
This proposed regulation adds to these
established factors two new factors.
First, in determining whether a delay in
providing a reasonable accommodation
was unnecessary, the question of
whether providing the accommodation
was simple or complex is a factor to be
considered. There are certain
modifications, set forth in § 1636.3(j)(4),
that will virtually always be found to be
reasonable accommodations that do not
impose an undue hardship: (1) allowing
a pregnant employee to carry and drink
water, as needed; (2) allowing a
pregnant employee additional restroom
breaks; (3) allowing a pregnant
employee whose work requires standing
to sit and whose work requires sitting to
stand; and (4) allowing a pregnant
employee breaks to eat and drink, as
needed. If there is a delay in providing
these accommodations, it will virtually
always be found to be unnecessary
because of the presumption that these
modifications will be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship. Second, another factor
to be considered when determining if a
delay in providing a reasonable
accommodation was unnecessary is
whether the covered entity offered the
employee or applicant an interim
reasonable accommodation during the
interactive process or while waiting for
the covered entity’s response. The
provision of such an interim
accommodation will decrease the
likelihood that an unnecessary delay
will be found. Under this factor, leave
is not considered an appropriate interim
reasonable accommodation if there is
another interim reasonable
accommodation that would not cause an
undue hardship and would allow the
employee to continue working, unless
the employee selects or requests leave as
an interim reasonable
accommodation.142
1636.4(a)(2) Employee or Applicant
Declining a Reasonable Accommodation
The proposed rule provides, as in the
ADA, that if an employee declines a
reasonable accommodation, and without
it the employee cannot perform one or
more essential functions of the position,
then the employee will no longer be
considered qualified.143 However,
because the PWFA allows for the
141 Id.
142 The restriction on using leave as an interim
accommodation is based on 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4).
143 See 29 CFR 1630.9(d).

PO 00000

Frm 00027

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54739

temporary suspension of one or more
essential functions in certain
circumstances, an employer must also
consider whether one or more essential
functions can be temporarily suspended
pursuant to the PWFA before a
determination is made pursuant to this
section that the employee is not
qualified.
1636.4(a)(3) Covered Entity Denying a
Reasonable Accommodation Due to
Lack of Supporting Documentation
As set out in the section of this
preamble regarding supporting
documentation, if the request for
documentation was not reasonable
under the circumstances for the covered
entity to determine whether to grant the
accommodation, a covered entity cannot
defend the denial of an accommodation
based on the lack of documentation
provided by the worker. The proposed
rule contains this provision in
§ 1636.4(a)(3).
1636.4(a)(4) Choosing Among Possible
Accommodations
Similar to the ADA, if there is more
than one effective accommodation, the
employee’s or applicant’s preference
should be given primary consideration.
However, the employer providing the
accommodation has the ultimate
discretion to choose between potential
reasonable accommodations and may
choose, for example, the less expensive
accommodation or the accommodation
that is easier for it to provide, or
generally the accommodation that
imposes the least hardship.144 In the
situation where the employer is
choosing between reasonable
accommodations and does not provide
the accommodation that is the worker’s
preferred accommodation, the employer
does not have to show that it is an
undue hardship to provide the worker’s
preferred accommodation.
A covered entity’s ‘‘ultimate
discretion’’ to choose a reasonable
accommodation is limited by certain
other considerations. First, the
accommodation must provide the
individual with a known limitation with
an equal employment opportunity,
meaning an opportunity to attain the
same level of performance, or to enjoy
the same level of benefits and privileges
of employment as are available to the
average similarly situated employee
without a known limitation.145 Thus, if
144 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
145 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9 (providing that
a reasonable accommodation ‘‘should provide the
individual with a disability with an equal
employment opportunity. Equal employment
opportunity means an opportunity to attain the

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

Continued

11AUP2

54740

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

there is more than one accommodation
that does not impose an undue
hardship, but one of them does not
provide the employee with an equal
employment opportunity, the employer
must choose the one that provides the
worker with equal employment
opportunity.146 Depending on the facts,
selecting the accommodation that does
not provide equal opportunity could
violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1), 2000gg–
(1)(5) or 2000gg–2(f).147 The proposed
rule, § 1636.4(a)(4), sets out this
prohibition.
The Commission seeks comment on
whether it should include language in
the rule explaining that an employer
may not unreasonably select an
accommodation that negatively affects
an employee’s or applicant’s
employment opportunities or terms and
conditions of employment when
another available accommodation
would not do so or whether the
protections in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
and (5) and 2000gg–2(f) alone are
sufficiently clear in this regard.148
Second, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
prohibits a covered entity from
requiring a qualified employee or
applicant affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to accept an accommodation other than
a reasonable accommodation arrived at
through the interactive process. Third,
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4) prohibits a
covered entity from requiring a qualified
employee with a known limitation to
take leave if there is a reasonable
same level of performance, or to enjoy the same
level of benefits and privileges of employment as
are available to the average similarly situated
employee without a disability.’’); 29 CFR part 1630
app. 1630.2(o) (explaining that reassignment should
be to a position with equivalent pay, status, etc., if
possible); see also Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 44, at text
following n.80 (‘‘However, if both the employer and
the employee voluntarily agree that transfer is
preferable to remaining in the current position with
some form of reasonable accommodation, then the
employer may transfer the employee.’’); Cf. EEOC,
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination,
12–IV.3 (2021) (stating that in the context of a
religious accommodation, an accommodation
would not be reasonable ‘‘if it requires the
employee to accept a reduction in pay rate or some
other loss of a benefit or privilege of employment
and there is an alternative accommodation that does
not do so.’’) https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
section-12-religious-discrimination [hereinafter
Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual].
146 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodations, supra note 44, Question 9
Example B.
147 Depending on the facts, this could be a
violation of Title VII’s prohibition on sex
discrimination as well.
148 Cf. 29 CFR 1605.2(c)(2)(ii) (when more than
one means of accommodation would not cause
undue hardship, the employer or labor organization
must offer the accommodation that least
disadvantages the individual with respect to
employment opportunities).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

accommodation that will allow the
employee to continue to work, absent
undue hardship. Fourth, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) prohibits a covered entity
that is, for example, selecting from an
array of accommodations, all of which
are effective and do not impose an
undue hardship, from picking one that
results in the covered entity taking
adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment of the
employee or applicant. Fifth, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) prohibits retaliation and
coercion by covered entities. These
limitations to the ‘‘ultimate discretion’’
of a covered entity to choose between
reasonable accommodations are
described in the discussions of
§ 1636.4(b), (d), and (e) and § 1636.5(f)
below.
Example 1636.4 #38/Failing to Provide an
Accommodation: Yasmin’s job requires her to
travel to meet with clients. Because of her
pregnancy, she is not able to travel for three
months. She asks that she be allowed to
conduct her client meetings via video
conferencing. Although this accommodation
would allow her to perform her essential job
functions and does not impose an undue
hardship, her employer reassigns her to
smaller, local accounts. Being assigned only
to these accounts limits Yasmin’s ability to
compete for promotions and bonuses as she
had in the past.
This could be a violation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1), because Yasmin is denied an
equal opportunity to compete for promotions
and is thus denied a reasonable
accommodation. The employer’s actions
could also violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) and
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), or Title VII’s
prohibition against pregnancy
discrimination.

1636.4(b) Requiring Employee or
Applicant To Accept an
Accommodation
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) prohibits a
covered entity from requiring an
employee or applicant to accept an
accommodation other than any
reasonable accommodation arrived at
through the interactive process. This
provision responds to concerns that
some employers may unilaterally curtail
what a pregnant worker can do in the
mistaken belief that the worker needs
some type of help.149 Pursuant to this
149 Cf. EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Unlawful
Disparate Treatment of Workers with Caregiving
Responsibilities II.A.3 (2007), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-unlawful-disparate-treatment-workerscaregiving-responsibilities (describing situations in
which employers incorrectly assume based on
stereotypes that workers with caregiving
responsibilities need a change to their workload or
work environment); see also UAW v. Johnson
Controls, 499 U.S. 187 (1991) (striking down
employer’s fetal protection policy that limited the
opportunities of women); Long Over Due, supra
note 2, at 192 (written answers of Dina Bakst, Co-

PO 00000

Frm 00028

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

provision in the PWFA and the
proposed rule, a covered entity cannot
force an employee or applicant to accept
an accommodation such as light duty or
a temporary transfer, or delay of an
examination that is part of the
application process, without engaging in
the interactive process, even if the
covered entity’s motivation is concern
for the applicant’s or employee’s health
or pregnancy.
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) does not
require that the employee or applicant
have a limitation, known or not; thus, a
violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) could
occur if a covered entity notices that an
employee or applicant is pregnant and
decides, without engaging in the
interactive process with the employee or
applicant, that the employee or
applicant needs a particular
accommodation, and unilaterally
requires the employee or applicant to
accept that accommodation, even
though the employee or applicant has
not requested it and can perform the
essential functions of the job without it.
For example, this provision could be
violated if an employment agency,
without discussing the situation with
the candidate, decided that a candidate
recovering from a miscarriage needed an
accommodation in the form of not being
sent to certain jobs that the agency
viewed as too physical, or if an
employer decided to excuse a pregnant
worker from overtime as an
accommodation, without discussing it
with them.150
Additionally, a violation could occur
if a covered entity receives a request for
a reasonable accommodation and
unilaterally imposes an accommodation
that was not requested without engaging
in the interactive process.
Example 1636.4 #39: Kia, a restaurant
server, is pregnant. She asks for additional
breaks during her shifts as her pregnancy
progresses because she feels tired, and her
feet are swelling. Her employer, without
engaging in the interactive process with Kia,
directs Kia to take host shifts for the
remainder of her pregnancy, because she can
sit for long periods during the shift. The
employer has violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
and § 1636.4(b) of the proposed rule, because
it required Kia to accept an accommodation
other than one arrived at through the
interactive process, even if Kia’s earnings did
not decrease and her terms, conditions, and
Founder & Co-President, A Better Balance)
(explaining that employers have been known to
unilaterally cut a worker’s hours or stop a worker
from working late in an attempt to ‘‘help’’ the
employee or because the employer felt sorry for the
worker, even though an employee did not ask for
such accommodation and did not need it).
150 These actions also could violate Title VII’s
prohibition of disparate treatment based on sex. See
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 11, at I.B.1.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
privileges of employment were not harmed.
The Commission recognizes that the relief in
this situation may be limited to requiring the
employer to engage in the interactive process
with the employee.
By contrast, if the host shift does not
provide Kia with equal terms, conditions,
and privileges of employment (e.g., Kia’s
wages decrease or Kia no longer can earn
tips), the covered entity also may have
violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (requiring
reasonable accommodation absent undue
hardship); 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) (prohibiting
adverse action in terms, benefits, or
privileges of employment); or 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) (prohibiting retaliation and
coercion) (implemented in the proposed rule
at § 1636.4(a), (e) and § 1636.5(f)).

need leave to recover from childbirth,
even if the covered entity does not know
the exact amount of leave the applicant
will require, or the applicant has not
mentioned the need for leave as a
reasonable accommodation to the
covered entity. The Commission
proposes this addition to ensure that
workers are protected in situations
where the employer’s actions are based
on avoiding the provision of a
reasonable accommodation, even if one
is not requested.

Finally, this provision also could be
violated if a covered entity has a rule
that requires all pregnant workers to
stop a certain function—such as
traveling—automatically, without any
evidence that the particular worker is
unable to perform that function. The
Commission seeks comment on whether
there are other factual scenarios that
would violate this provision and
whether additional examples would be
helpful.

Sometimes, when employees notify
their employers that they are pregnant,
employers place them on leave or direct
them to use leave.152 Workers on unpaid
leave risk their economic security, and
workers who use their leave—whether
paid or unpaid—prior to giving birth
may not have leave when they need it
to recover from childbirth.153
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4) seeks to limit
this practice. Under this provision, a
covered entity may not require a
qualified employee with a known
limitation to take leave, whether paid or
unpaid, if another reasonable
accommodation can be provided, absent
undue hardship. In other words, under
the PWFA, an employee cannot be
forced to take leave if another
reasonable accommodation can be
provided that would not impose an
undue hardship and would allow the
employee to continue to work.
Of course, this limitation does not
prohibit the provision of leave as a
reasonable accommodation if leave is
the reasonable accommodation
requested or selected by the employee,
or if it is the only reasonable
accommodation that does not cause an
undue hardship. As explained above in
the preamble’s discussion of § 1636.3(h)
and (i), both paid leave (accrued, shortterm disability, or another employer
benefit) and unpaid leave are potential
reasonable accommodations under the
PWFA. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1–(4) and the
proposed rule merely prohibits an
employer from requiring an employee to
take leave if there is another reasonable
accommodation that would not impose
an undue hardship and would allow the
employee to remain on the job.

1636.4(c) Denying Opportunities
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(3) prohibits a
covered entity from denying
employment opportunities to a qualified
employee or applicant with a known
limitation if the denial is based on the
need of the covered entity to make
reasonable accommodations to the
known limitations of the employee or
applicant. Thus, an employee’s or
applicant’s known limitation and need
for a reasonable accommodation cannot
be part of the covered entity’s decision
regarding hiring, discharge, promotion,
or other employment decisions, unless
the reasonable accommodation would
impose an undue hardship on the
covered entity. This provision in the
PWFA uses language similar to that of
the ADA, and the proposed rule
likewise uses the language similar to the
corresponding ADA regulation.151
Additionally, the proposed rule
includes situations where the covered
entity’s decision is based on the future
possibility that a reasonable
accommodation will be needed, i.e., 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(3) prohibits a covered
entity from making a decision based on
its belief that an individual may need a
reasonable accommodation in the future
even if the individual has not asked for
one. Thus, under the proposed rule, this
prohibition would include situations
where a covered entity refuses to hire a
pregnant applicant because the covered
entity believes that the applicant will
151 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(B); 29 CFR 1630.9(b).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

1636.4(d) Requiring Employee To Take
Leave

152 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 24.
153 Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 81 (statement
of Rep. Jahana Hayes) (explaining that she kept
working while pregnant in order to save her leave
for after childbirth).

PO 00000

Frm 00029

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54741

1636.4(e) Adverse Action on Account of
Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation
The PWFA contains overlapping
provisions that protect workers seeking
or using reasonable accommodations.
Importantly, nothing in the PWFA
limits which provision a worker may
use to protect their rights.
One of these provisions is 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5), which prohibits a covered
entity from ‘‘tak[ing] adverse action in
terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment against a qualified
employee on account of the employee
requesting or using a reasonable
accommodation to the known
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
of the employee.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5)
only applies to situations involving a
qualified employee who asks for or uses
a reasonable accommodation. The
protections provided by 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) are likely to have
significant overlap with 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f), which prohibits retaliation.
As explained in the preamble’s
discussion of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
(proposed § 1636.5(f)), however, the
PWFA’s anti-retaliation provisions
apply to a broader group of employees
and actions than 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5)
does.
The term ‘‘take adverse action’’ in 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) is not taken from
Title VII or the ADA. From the context
of this provision and the basic
dictionary definitions of the terms, this
prohibits an employer from taking a
harmful action against an employee.154
‘‘Terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment’’ is a term from Title VII,
and the EEOC has interpreted it to
encompass a wide range of activities or
practices that occur in the workplace
including, but not limited to,
discriminatory work environment or
atmosphere; duration of work (such as
the length of an employment contract,
hours of work, or attendance); work
rules; job assignments and duties; and
job advancement (such as training,
support, and performance
evaluations).155 In addition, for the
purposes of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5),
‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges of
154 Adverse, Merriam-Webster.com, https://
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/adverse
(‘‘hostile,’’ ‘‘unfavorable’’ and ‘‘harmful.’’) (last
visited June 13, 2023).
155 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1); Compliance Manual
on Terms, Conditions, and Privileges of
Employment, supra note 82, at 613.1(a) (stating that
the language is to be read in the broadest possible
terms and providing a list of examples).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54742

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

employment’’ can include hiring,
discharge, or compensation.156
Thus, this provision may be violated
when, for example, a covered entity
grants a reasonable accommodation but
then penalizes the employee.
Example 1636.4 #40: Nava took leave to
recover from childbirth as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, and, as a
result, failed to meet the sales quota for that
quarter, which led to a negative performance
appraisal. The negative appraisal could be a
violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) because
Nava received it due to the use of a
reasonable accommodation.

Also, an employer may violate this
provision if there is more than one
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship, and the employer, after
the interactive process, chooses the
accommodation that causes an adverse
action with respect to the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment,
despite the existence of an alternative
accommodation that would not do so.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Example 1636.4 #41: Ivy asks for
additional bathroom breaks during work
because of pregnancy, including during
overtime shifts. After talking to Ivy, rather
than providing the breaks during overtime,
Ivy’s supervisor decides Ivy should simply
not work overtime, because during the
overtime shift there are fewer employees, and
the supervisor does not want to bother
figuring out coverage for Ivy, although it
would not be an undue hardship to do so. As
a result, Ivy is not assigned overtime and
loses earnings.
This conduct could violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) in two ways. First, Ivy’s request
for a reasonable accommodation led to an
adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment. Second, Ivy’s use
of the accommodation of not working
overtime led to a reduction in pay, i.e., an
adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of Ivy’s employment, and there
was an alternative accommodation (assigning
coverage for Ivy as needed) that would not
have done so.
Example 1636.4 #42: Leyla asks for
telework due to morning sickness. Through
the interactive process, it is determined that
both telework and a later schedule combined
with an hour rest break in the afternoon
would allow Leyla to perform the essential
functions of her job and would not impose
an undue hardship. Although Leyla prefers
telework, the employer would rather Leyla be
in the office. It would not be a violation of
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) to offer Leyla the
schedule change/rest break instead of
telework as a reasonable accommodation.

The facts set out in examples 40 and
41 could also violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(1) and 2000gg–2(f).
156 The PWFA’s use of the phrase ‘‘terms,
conditions, and privileges of employment’’ includes
hiring, discharge, and compensation, which are also
included within the scope of Title VII. 42 U.S.C.
2000e–2(a)(1).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

As stated at the beginning of this
section, the PWFA has overlapping
protections for workers who request or
use reasonable accommodations. The
Commission emphasizes that qualified
employees with known limitations may
bring actions under any of these
provisions. Finally, the Commission
seeks comment on whether there are
other factual scenarios that would
violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) and
whether additional examples would be
helpful.
Section 1636.5 Remedies and
Enforcement
In crafting the PWFA remedies and
enforcement section, Congress
recognized the advisability of using the
existing mechanisms in place for redress
of other forms of employment
discrimination. In this regard, the
PWFA and the proposed regulation
provide the following:
1636.5(a) Remedies and Enforcement
Under Title VII
As explained in PWFA, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(a) and (e), the applicable
enforcement mechanism and remedies
available to employees and others
covered by Title VII apply to the PWFA
as well. The proposed rule parallels the
statutory language, noting that the
powers, remedies, and procedures
provided in sections 705–707, 709–711,
and 717 of Title VII, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–
4, shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures provided by the PWFA.
The Commission also emphasizes that
its implementing regulations found at
29 CFR parts 1601 (procedural
regulations), 1602 (recordkeeping and
reporting requirements under Title VII,
the ADA, and the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act (GINA)), and
1614 (Federal sector equal employment
opportunity) apply to the PWFA as well.
Thus, employees covered by section 706
of Title VII may file charges with the
EEOC, and the EEOC will investigate
them using the same process as set out
in Title VII. Similarly, employees
covered by section 717 of Title VII may
file complaints with the relevant
Federal agency which will investigate
them, and the EEOC will process
appeals using the same process as set
out in Title VII for Federal employees.
1636.5(b) Remedies and Enforcement
Under the Congressional Accountability
Act
Employees covered by the
Congressional Accountability Act of
1995, 2 U.S.C. 1401 et seq. (CAA) must
use the procedures set forth in that
statute. The Commission has no
authority with respect to the

PO 00000

Frm 00030

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

enforcement of the PWFA as to
employees covered by the CAA.
1636.5(c) Remedies and Enforcement
Under Chapter 5 of Title 3, United
States Code
The applicable procedures and
available remedies for employees
covered by 3 U.S.C. 401 et seq. are set
forth in 3 U.S.C. 451–454. These
sections provide for counseling and
mediation of employment
discrimination allegations and the
formal processing of complaints before
the Commission using the same
administrative process generally
applicable to employees in the
Executive Branch of the Federal
Government; that is, the process set
forth in 29 CFR part 1614.
1636.5(d) Remedies and Enforcement
Under GERA
The applicable procedures and
available remedies for employees
covered by sections 302 and 304 of the
Government Employee Rights Act of
1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b and –16c
(GERA), apply under the PWFA. EEOC
regulations applicable to GERA are
found at 29 CFR part 1603.
1636.5(e) Remedies and Enforcement
Under Section 717 of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964
The applicable procedures and
available remedies for employees
covered by section 717 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16,
apply under the PWFA.
Damages
As with other Federal employment
discrimination laws, the PWFA
provides for recovery of pecuniary and
non-pecuniary damages, including
compensatory and punitive damages.
The statute’s incorporation by reference
of section 1977A of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, 42 U.S.C. 1981a,
also imports the limitations on the
recovery of compensatory damages for
future pecuniary losses, emotional pain,
suffering, inconvenience, mental
anguish, loss of enjoyment of life, other
nonpecuniary losses, and punitive
damages generally applicable in
employment discrimination cases,
depending on the size of the employer.
Punitive damages are not available in
actions against the Federal Government
or against State or local government
employers. The proposed rule lays out
these requirements involving damages
in separate paragraphs under
§ 1636.5(a)–(e).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
Poster Requirement
Because the PWFA adopts the powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
various sections of Title VII, including
section 711, covered entities are
required to post notices in conspicuous
places describing applicable PWFA
provisions. The Commission published
an updated EEO poster that includes the
PWFA when the PWFA went into effect.
1636.5(f) Prohibition Against Retaliation
The anti-retaliation provisions of the
PWFA should be interpreted broadly,
like those of Title VII and the ADA, to
effectuate Congress’s broad remedial
purpose in enacting these laws.157 The
protections of these provisions extend
beyond qualified employees and
applicants with known limitations and
cover activity that may not yet have
occurred, such as a circumstance in
which a covered entity threatens an
employee or applicant with termination
if they file a charge or requires an
employee or applicant to sign an
agreement that prohibits such
individual from filing a charge with the
EEOC.158
1636.5(f)(1) Prohibition Against
Retaliation
The proposed regulation reiterates the
statutory prohibition against retaliation
from 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1), which
uses the same language as Title VII and
the ADA.159 Thus, the types of conduct
prohibited and the standard for
determining what constitutes retaliatory
conduct under the PWFA are the same
as they are under Title VII. Accordingly,
this provision prohibits discrimination
against individuals who engage in
protected activity, which includes
‘‘‘participating’ in an EEO process or
‘opposing’ discrimination.’’ 160 Title
VII’s anti-retaliation provision is broad
and protects an individual from

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

157 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation

and Related Issues II.A, A.1 (2016), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-retaliation-and-related-issues [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation] (describing
the broad protection of the participation clause); id.
at A.2, A.2.a (describing the broad protection of the
opposition clause).
158 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on NonWaivable Employee Rights under EEOC Enforced
Statutes II (1997), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-non-waivableemployee-rights-under-eeoc-enforced-statutes
(‘‘[P]romises not to file a charge or participate in an
EEOC proceeding are null and void as a matter of
public policy. Agreements extracting such promises
from employees may also amount to separate and
discrete violations of the anti-retaliation provisions
of the civil rights statutes.’’).
159 42 U.S.C. 2000e–3(a); 42 U.S.C. 12203(a).
160 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 157, at II.A; see also id. at II.A.1–A.2
(describing protected activity under Title VII’s antiretaliation clause).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

conduct, whether related to
employment or not, that a reasonable
person would have found ‘‘materially
adverse,’’ meaning that the action ‘‘well
might have dissuaded a reasonable
worker from making or supporting a
charge of discrimination.’’ 161 The same
interpretation applies to the PWFA’s
anti-retaliation provision.162
The proposed rule contains five other
provisions based on the statutory
language and established anti-retaliation
concepts under Title VII and the ADA.
First, like Title VII and the ADA, the
proposed rule protects employees,
applicants, and former employees
because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1)
protects ‘‘employees,’’ not ‘‘qualified
employees with a known limitation.’’
Therefore, the proposed rule states that
an employee, applicant, or former
employee need not establish that they
have a known limitation or are qualified
under the PWFA to bring a claim under
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1).163 Second, the
proposed rule explains that, consistent
with the ADA and Title VII, a request
for a reasonable accommodation under
the PWFA constitutes protected activity,
and therefore retaliation for such a
request is prohibited.164 Third, the
proposed rule provides that an
employee, applicant, or former
employee does not have to actually be
deterred from exercising or enjoying
rights under this section for the
retaliation to be actionable.165 Fourth, as
explained in the preamble’s discussion
of the documentation that can be
required in support of a request for
reasonable accommodation, the
proposed rule notes that it may violate
this section for a covered entity to
require documentation when it is not
reasonable under the circumstances to
determine whether to provide the
accommodation. Finally, the proposed
161 Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. White, 548
U.S. 53, 68 (2006) (internal citations and quotations
omitted).
162 All retaliatory conduct under Title VII (and
the ADA), including retaliation that takes the form
of harassment, is evaluated under the legal standard
for retaliation. See Enforcement Guidance on
Retaliation, supra note 157, at II.B.3.
163 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 157, at III (recognizing that under the
ADA, individuals need not establish that they are
covered under the statute’s substantive
discrimination provisions in order to be protected
against retaliation); id. at II.A.3; see also Robinson
v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346 (1997) (holding
that Title VII protects former employees from
retaliation).
164 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 157, at II.A.2.e and Example 10.
165 Id. at II.B.1, B.2 (stating that the retaliation
‘‘standard can be satisfied even if the individual
was not in fact deterred’’ and that ‘‘[i]f the
employer’s action would be reasonably likely to
deter protected activity, it can be challenged as
retaliation even if it falls short of its goal’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00031

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54743

rule explains that when an employee or
applicant provides sufficient
documentation to describe the relevant
limitation and need for accommodation,
continued efforts on the covered entity’s
part to obtain documentation violates
the retaliation prohibition unless the
covered entity has a good faith belief
that the submitted documentation is
insufficient.
1636.5(f)(2) Prohibition Against
Coercion
The PWFA’s anti-coercion provision
uses the same language as the ADA’s
interference provision, with one minor
variation in the title of the section.166
Similar to the ADA, the scope of the
PWFA coercion provision is broader
than the anti-retaliation provision; it
reaches those instances ‘‘when conduct
does not meet the ‘materially adverse’
standard required for retaliation.’’ 167
The proposed rule follows the
language of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(2) and
protects ‘‘individuals,’’ not ‘‘qualified
employees with a known limitation
under the PWFA.’’ Thus, the proposed
rule specifies that, consistent with the
ADA’s interference provisions, the
individual need not be an employee,
applicant, or former employee and need
not establish that they have a known
limitation or that they are qualified (as
those terms are defined in the PWFA) to
bring a claim for coercion under the
PWFA.168
The purpose of this provision is to
ensure that workers are free to avail
themselves of the protections of the
statute. Thus, consistent with the ADA
regulations for the same provision, the
proposed rule adds ‘‘harass’’ to the list
of prohibitions, as harassment may be a
method to coerce a worker into not
availing themselves of their PWFA
rights.169 The proposed rule also states
that an individual does not, in fact, have
to be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under this section for the
coercion to be actionable.170
The proposed rule contains three
examples of actions that could be
violations. First, the proposed rule
states that it prohibits coercion,
intimidation, threats, harassment, or
166 The ADA uses the term ‘‘Interference,
coercion, or intimidation’’ to preface the
prohibition against interference (42 U.S.C.
12203(b)), whereas the PWFA uses ‘‘Prohibition
against coercion.’’ The language of the prohibitions
is otherwise identical.
167 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 157, at III.
168 Id.
169 29 CFR 1630.12(b).
170 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 157, at II.B.1–B.2 (noting that actions can be
challenged as retaliatory even if the person was not
deterred from engaging in protected activity).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54744

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

interference because an individual,
including an employee, applicant, or
former employee, has asked for a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA.
Second, the proposed rule provides
that coercion could include situations in
which the covered entity requires
documentation in support of a request
for reasonable accommodation when it
is not reasonable under the
circumstances to determine whether to
provide the accommodation.
Third, the proposed rule states that a
covered entity that has sufficient
information regarding the known
limitation and the need for reasonable
accommodation but continues to require
additional information or
documentation violates the anticoercion provision unless the covered
entity has a good faith belief that the
documentation is insufficient.
Some other examples of coercion
include:
• coercing an individual to relinquish
or forgo an accommodation to which
they are otherwise entitled;
• intimidating an applicant from
requesting an accommodation for the
application process by indicating that
such a request will result in the
applicant not being hired;
• issuing a policy or requirement that
purports to limit an employee’s or
applicant’s rights to invoke PWFA
protections (e.g., a fixed leave policy
that states ‘‘no exceptions will be made
for any reason’’);
• interfering with a former
employee’s right to file a PWFA lawsuit
against a former employer by stating
that a negative job reference will be
given to prospective employers if the
suit is filed; and
• subjecting an employee to
unwarranted discipline, demotion, or
other adverse treatment because they
assisted a coworker in requesting a
reasonable accommodation.171

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Examples of Retaliation and/or
Coercion
Actions that the courts or the
Commission have previously
determined may qualify as retaliation or
coercion under Title VII or the ADA
may qualify under the PWFA as well.
Depending on the facts, a covered
entity’s retaliatory action for activity
protected under the PWFA may violate
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5), 2000gg–2(f)(1)
and/or 2000gg–2(f)(2), as implemented
by proposed rule §§ 1636.4(e) and
1636.5(f). The following examples
would likely violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
171 Id. at III.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

2(f) and may also violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5).
Example 1636.5 #43: Perrin requests a stool
due to pregnancy. Lucy, Perrin’s supervisor,
denies Perrin’s request. The corporate human
resources department instructs Lucy to grant
the request because there is no undue
hardship. Angry about being overruled, Lucy
thereafter gives Perrin an unjustified poor
performance rating and denies Perrin’s
request to attend training that Lucy approves
for Perrin’s coworkers.
Example 1636.5 #44: Marisol files an EEOC
charge after Cyrus, her supervisor, refused to
provide her with the reasonable
accommodation of help with lifting after her
cesarean section. Marisol also alleges that
after she asked for the accommodation, Cyrus
asked two coworkers to conduct surveillance
on Marisol, including watching her at work,
noting with whom she associated in the
workplace, suggesting to other employees
that they should avoid her, and reporting her
breaks to Cyrus.
Example 1636.5 #45: Mara provides her
employer with a note from her health care
provider explaining that she is pregnant, has
morning sickness, and needs to start work
later on certain days. Mara’s supervisor
requires that Mara confirm the pregnancy
through an ultrasound, even though the
employer already has sufficient information
regarding Mara’s pregnancy.
Example 1636.5 #46: During an interview
at an employment agency, Arden tells the
human resources staffer, Stanley, that Arden
is dealing with complications from their
recent childbirth and may need time off for
doctor’s appointments during their first few
weeks at work. Stanley counsels Arden that
needing leave so soon after starting will be
a ‘‘black mark’’ on their application.
Example 1636.5 #47: Merritt, a client of an
employment agency, is discharged from an
employer after requesting an accommodation
under the PWFA. The employment agency
refuses to refer Merritt to other employers,
telling Merritt that they only refer workers
who will not cause any trouble.
Example 1636.5 #48: Jessie, a factory union
steward, ensures that workers know about
their rights under the PWFA and encourages
workers with known limitations to ask for
reasonable accommodations. Jessie helps
employees navigate the reasonable
accommodation process and provides
suggestions of possible reasonable
accommodations. Factory supervisors are
annoyed at the number of PWFA reasonable
accommodation requests and write up Jessie
for petty safety violations and other actions
that had not been worthy of discipline before.
Example 1636.5 #49: While she was
pregnant, Laila requested and received the
reasonable accommodation of a temporary
suspension of the essential function of
moving heavy boxes and placement in the
light duty program. After giving birth, Laila
tells her employer that she has decided to
resign and stay home for a year. Her
employer responds by saying that if Laila
follows through and resigns now, the
employer will have no choice but to give her
a negative reference because Laila demanded
an accommodation but did not have the
loyalty to come back after having her baby.

PO 00000

Frm 00032

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Example 1636.5 #50: Robbie, a retail
worker, is visibly pregnant and would like to
sit while working at the cash register. Robbie
explains the situation to the manager, who
requires Robbie to produce a signed doctor’s
note saying that Robbie is pregnant and
needs to sit. Because Robbie is obviously
pregnant, has confirmed the pregnancy, and
requests one of the simple modifications that
will virtually always be found to be a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship, the covered
entity is not permitted to require additional
medical documentation.

Protection of Confidential Medical
Information
As explained in the preamble’s
discussion of § 1636.3(l)
Documentation, the established ADA
rules requiring covered entities to keep
medical information of applicants,
employees, and former employees
confidential apply to medical
information obtained in connection
with a reasonable accommodation
request under the PWFA.172 Medical
information obtained by the employer in
the process of a worker seeking a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA must be protected as set out in
the ADA and failing to do so would
violate the ADA. For example, the fact
that someone is pregnant or has recently
been pregnant, is medical information
about that person, as is the fact that they
have a medical condition related to
pregnancy or childbirth. Thus,
disclosing that someone is pregnant, has
recently been pregnant, or has a related
medical condition violates the ADA,
unless an exception applies, as does
disclosing that someone is receiving or
has requested an accommodation under
the PWFA or has limitations for which
they requested or are receiving a
reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA (because revealing this
information discloses that the person is
pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or
has a related medical condition).173
In addition, releasing medical
information, threatening to release
medical information, or requiring an
employee or applicant to share their
medical information with individuals
who have no role in processing a
request for reasonable accommodation
may violate the PWFA’s retaliation and
coercion provisions.174
172 Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related
Inquiries, supra note 114, at text accompanying n.9;
EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment
Disability-Related Questions and Medical
Examinations, at text accompanying n.6 and nn.23–
25 (1995), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
enforcement-guidance-preemployment-disabilityrelated-questions-and-medical.
173 29 CFR 1630.14(c); Enforcement Guidance on
Disability-Related Inquiries, supra note 114, at A.
174 See § 1636.5(f)(1) and (2).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
1636.5(f)(3) Remedies for Retaliation
and Coercion
The PWFA provides that the remedies
and procedures for retaliation and
coercion claims are the same as the
remedies and procedures used for the
PWFA nondiscrimination provisions.
The proposed rule reiterates the
statutory language on this subject.
1636.5(g) Good Faith Efforts
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(g)
and the proposed rule, using the
language of the Civil Rights Act of 1991,
42 U.S.C. 1981(a)(3), provide a
limitation on damages based on a ‘‘good
faith effort’’ to provide a reasonable
accommodation. Specifically, damages
may not be awarded if the covered
entity demonstrates good faith efforts, in
consultation with the employee with a
known limitation, to identify and make
a reasonable accommodation that would
provide the employee with an equally
effective opportunity and would not
cause an undue hardship. The covered
entity bears the burden of proof for this
affirmative defense.
Section 1636.6 Waiver of State
Immunity
Because States are employers covered
by Title VII, and the PWFA adopts Title
VII’s definition of employers, States are
employers covered by the PWFA. The
PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–4 waives
State immunity under the 11th
Amendment in an action in a Federal or
State court of competent jurisdiction for
a violation of the PWFA. The PWFA at
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–4 also makes remedies
at law and in equity available in actions
under the PWFA against States to the
same extent that such remedies are
available for such a violation against
any public or private entity other than
a State.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Section 1636.7 Relationship to Other
Laws
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5 and
this section of the proposed regulation
address the PWFA’s relationship to
other Federal, State, and local laws.
1636.7(a) Relationship to Other Laws
Generally
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(1) addresses
the relationship of the PWFA to other
Federal, State, and local laws governing
protections for individuals affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions and makes clear that
the PWFA does not limit the rights of
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
under a Federal, State, or local law that
provides greater or equal protection. It
is equally true that Federal, State, or

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

local laws that provide less protection
for individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
than the PWFA do not limit the rights
provided by the PWFA. The proposed
regulation reiterates the statutory
provision addressing the relationship of
the PWFA to other Federal, State, and
local laws governing protections for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
Thirty States and five localities have
laws that provide accommodations for
pregnant workers.175 Federal laws,
including, but not limited to, Title VII,
the ADA, the FMLA, the Rehabilitation
Act, and the PUMP Act, also provide
protections for certain workers affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.176 All of the
protections regarding discrimination
based on pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions in these laws
are unaffected by the PWFA.
Additionally, if there are greater
protections in other laws, those would
apply. For example, the State of
Washington’s Healthy Starts Act
provides that certain accommodations,
including lifting restrictions of 17
pounds or more, cannot be the subject
of an undue hardship analysis.177 If a
worker in Washington is seeking a
lifting restriction as a reasonable
accommodation for a pregnancy-related
reason under the Healthy Starts Act, an
employer in Washington cannot argue
that a lifting restriction of 20 pounds is
an undue hardship, even though that
defense could be raised if the claim
were brought under the PWFA.
Furthermore, employees and
applicants may bring claims under
multiple State or Federal laws. Thus, a
pregnant applicant denied a position
because they are pregnant and will need
leave for recovery from childbirth may
bring a claim under both Title VII for
sex discrimination and the PWFA for
the denial of an employment
opportunity based on the applicant’s
need for an accommodation. Similarly,
a worker with postpartum depression
who, for that reason, is denied an equal
employment opportunity may bring a
claim under both the PWFA and the
ADA, and possibly Title VII.
Under Title VII, employees affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions may be able to
receive accommodations if they can
identify a comparator ‘‘similar in their
175 Employment Protections for Workers Who Are
Pregnant or Nursing, supra note 5.
176 For an explanation of the interaction between
the FMLA and the ADA, see 29 CFR 825.702.
177 Wash. Rev. Code 43.10.005(1)(d).

PO 00000

Frm 00033

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54745

ability or inability to work.’’ 178 Under
the PWFA, employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions will be able to seek
reasonable accommodations whether or
not other employees have those
accommodations and whether or not the
affected employees are similar in their
ability or inability to work as employees
not so affected. Additionally, if the
covered entity offers a neutral reason or
policy to explain why employees
affected by pregnancy, childbirth or
related medical conditions cannot
access a specific benefit, the employee
with a known limitation under the
PWFA still may ask for a waiver of that
policy as a reasonable accommodation.
Under the PWFA, the employer must
grant the waiver, or another reasonable
accommodation, absent undue
hardship. If, for example, an employer
denies a pregnant worker’s request to
join its light duty program as a
reasonable accommodation, arguing that
the program is for workers with on-thejob injuries, it may be difficult for the
employer to prove that allowing the
worker with a known limitation under
the PWFA to use that program is an
undue hardship. Finally, employers in
this situation should remember that if
there are others to whom the benefit is
extended, the Young v. United Parcel
Serv., Inc., Court stated that ‘‘[the
employer’s] reason [for refusing to
accommodate a pregnant employee]
normally cannot consist simply of a
claim that it is more expensive or less
convenient to add pregnant women to
the category of those . . . whom the
employer accommodates.’’ 179 Thus, if
the undue hardship defense of the
employer under the PWFA is based
solely on cost or convenience, that
defense could, under certain fact
patterns, lead to liability under Title VII.
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2) makes clear
that an employer-sponsored health plan
is not required under the PWFA to pay
for or cover any item, procedure, or
treatment and that the PWFA does not
affect any right or remedy available
under any other Federal, State, or local
law with respect to any such payment
or coverage requirement. For example,
nothing in the PWFA requires or forbids
an employer to pay for health insurance
benefits for an abortion. The proposed
regulation, at § 1636.6, reiterates the
statutory provision regarding such
coverage.
178 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
179 Young, 575 U.S. at 229.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54746

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

1636.7(b) Rule of Construction
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) provides a
‘‘[r]ule of construction’’ 180 stating that
the law is ‘‘subject to the applicability
to religious employment’’ set forth in
section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–1(a). The relevant
portion of section 702(a) provides that
‘‘[Title VII] shall not apply . . . to a
religious corporation, association,
educational institution, or society with
respect to the employment of
individuals of a particular religion to
perform work connected with the
carrying on by such corporation,
association, educational institution, or
society of its activities.’’ 181
The proposed regulation reiterates the
PWFA’s statutory language and adds
that nothing in the text of the proposed
rule limits the rights of covered entities
under the U.S. Constitution, and that
nothing in the proposed rule or 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) limits the rights of
an employee, applicant, or former
employee under other civil rights
statutes. As with assertions of section
702(a) in Title VII matters, when 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) is asserted by a
respondent employer, the Commission
will consider the application of the
provision on a case-by-case basis.182
Given the Commission’s obligation to
give effect to the remedial purpose of
the PWFA and provide examples of how
the statute’s reasonable accommodation
requirement applies in certain
circumstances, the Commission is
considering whether to provide
examples that implicate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–5(b) and whether to adopt a

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

180 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) (heading).
181 The PWFA makes no mention of section
703(e)(2) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which
provides a second statutory exemption for religious
educational institutions in certain circumstances.
182 The EEOC’s procedures ensure that employers
have an opportunity to raise religious defenses and
that any religious defense to a charge of
discrimination is carefully considered. See
Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual,
supra note 145, at 12–I(C)(3) (discussing the
‘‘nuanced balancing’’ required and instructing
investigators to ‘‘take great care’’); 29 CFR 1601 et
seq. (setting out the EEOC’s charge procedures). The
EEOC recognizes employers’ valid religious
defenses and dismisses charges at the
administrative stage accordingly. See Newsome v.
EEOC, 301 F.3d 227, 229–230 (5th Cir. 2002) (per
curiam) (EEOC dismissed a charge where the
employer offered evidence it fell under the religious
organization exemption). The EEOC has no
authority to impose penalties on private employers,
see Occidental Life Ins. Co. of Cal. v. EEOC, 432
U.S. 355, 363 (1977); thus, if the EEOC rejects a
private employer’s asserted religious defense, the
EEOC cannot force the employer to resolve the
charge or pay any type of damages. To obtain any
type of relief if the EEOC is unsuccessful at
obtaining voluntary compliance, the EEOC would
have to bring a case in Federal court, where the
validity of the employer’s religious defense would
be determined.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

more detailed rule setting forth a
specific interpretation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–5(b) that would inform the
Commission’s case-by-case
consideration of whether that provision
applies to a particular set of facts. The
Commission therefore seeks information
on how section 702(a) of Title VII,
adopted as a rule of construction in
PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b), may
apply in the context of concrete factual
scenarios.183 Specifically, the
Commission invites the public to
provide examples of:
(1) What accommodations provided
under PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1, may
impact a religious organization’s
employment of individuals of a
particular religion, and what
accommodations may not impact a
religious organization’s employment of
such individuals;
(2) How accommodations provided
under PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1, may
affect those individuals’ performance of
work connected with the religious
organization’s activities, and when they
may not affect those individuals’
performance of such work;
(3) When the prohibition on
retaliatory or coercive actions in PWFA,
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), may impact a
religious organization’s employment of
individuals of a particular religion, and
when it may not impact a religious
organization’s employment of such
individuals;
(4) When prohibiting retaliatory or
coercive actions as described in PWFA,
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), may affect those
individuals’ performance of work
connected with the religious
organization’s activities, and when it
may not affect those individuals’
performance of such work; and
(5) Whether any of the above factual
scenarios is expected to arise with such
regularity that, to facilitate compliance
with this provision, the public would
benefit from the Commission providing
a more detailed interpretation of PWFA,
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b), that would
inform the Commission’s case-by-case
consideration of whether that provision
applies to a particular set of facts.
Possible alternatives for a more detailed
interpretation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b)
that the Commission could adopt
include: (a) a rule of construction that
‘‘allows religious institutions to
continue to prefer coreligionists in the
pregnancy accommodation context,’’
specifically in connection with
accommodations that involve
reassignment to a job or to duties for
which a religious organization has
183 PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b).

PO 00000

Frm 00034

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

decided to employ a coreligionist; 184 or
(b) a rule that construes the PWFA as
not requiring a religious entity to make
any accommodation that would conflict
with the entity’s religion.185
The Commission also seeks comments
regarding any alternative interpretations
of PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b), that
commenters believe, given their answers
to questions 1–5, that the Commission
should consider.
The Commission will evaluate the
comments it receives using the
following framework and
considerations.
Ministerial Exception and RFRA
Religious entities may have a defense
to a PWFA claim under the First
Amendment or the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act (RFRA).
Under the religion clauses of the First
Amendment, a religious organization
may, in certain circumstances, select
those who will ‘‘personify its beliefs,’’
‘‘shape its own faith and mission,’’ or
‘‘minister to the faithful.’’ 186 This rule
is known as the ‘‘ministerial exception’’
and may provide an affirmative defense
to an otherwise cognizable claim under
certain anti-discrimination laws,
including Title VII 187 and the PWFA.
The exception applies to discrimination
claims involving the selection,
supervision, and removal by a religious
institution of employees who perform
vital religious duties at the core of the
mission of the religious institution.188 In
determining whether the ministerial
exception applies to a claim, the
Commission applies the Supreme
Court’s reasoning in Hosanna-Tabor
Evangelical Lutheran Church & School
v. EEOC 189 and Our Lady of Guadalupe
School v. Morrissey-Berru 190 on a caseby-case basis, including reviewing the
factors set out by the Supreme Court.
RFRA provides that ‘‘[g]overnment
shall not substantially burden a person’s
184 See 168 Cong. Rec. H10,527–28 (daily ed. Dec.
23, 2022) (statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler).
185 See 168 Cong. Rec. S10,063, S10,070 (daily ed.
Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Senator Bill Cassidy
that ‘‘the title VII religious exemption’’ addresses
the same issue as a rejected amendment to the
PWFA from Senator James Lankford, which stated:
‘‘This division shall not be construed to require a
religious entity described in section 702(a) of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 to make an accommodation
that would violate the entity’s religion’’).
186 Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church
& Sch. v. EEOC, 565 U.S. 171, 188–89 (2012).
187 Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual,
supra note 145, at 12–I.C.2.
188 Id. at 12–I.C.2 (noting that ‘‘unlike the
statutory religious organization exemption, the
ministerial exception applies regardless of whether
the challenged employment decision was for
‘religious’ reasons’’).
189 565 U.S. at 190–94.
190 140 S. Ct. 2049, 2063–69 (2020).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
exercise of religion’’ even if the burden
‘‘results from a rule of general
applicability’’ except when the burden
‘‘is in furtherance of a compelling
governmental interest’’ and ‘‘is the least
restrictive means of furthering that
compelling governmental interest.’’ 191
Most courts to consider the issue have
held that a RFRA defense does not
apply in suits involving only private
parties.192 The Commission carefully
considers assertions of a defense under
RFRA on a case-by-case basis.193
Section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964
Entities Considered Religious
Organizations
Under section 702(a) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, an employer that is
a ‘‘religious corporation, association,
educational institution, or society’’
qualifies for the religious exemption set
forth in that provision. This exemption
only applies to those organizations
whose purpose and character are
primarily religious. Courts have
articulated different factors to determine
whether an entity is a religious
organization, including: (1) whether the
entity operates for a profit; (2) whether
it produces a secular product; (3)
whether the entity’s articles of
incorporation or other pertinent
documents state a religious purpose; (4)
whether it is owned, affiliated with, or
financially supported by a formally
religious entity such as a church or
synagogue; (5) whether a formally
religious entity participates in the
management, for instance by having
representatives on the board of trustees;
(6) whether the entity holds itself out to
the public as secular or sectarian; (7)
whether the entity regularly includes
prayer or other forms of worship in its
activities; (8) whether it includes
religious instruction in its curriculum,
to the extent it is an educational
institution; and (9) whether its

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

191 42 U.S.C. 2000bb–1(a)–(b).
192 See, e.g., Listecki v. Off. Comm. of Unsecured
Creditors, 780 F.3d 731, 736–37 (7th Cir. 2015);
Gen. Conf. Corp. of Seventh-Day Adventists v.
McGill, 617 F.3d 402, 409–12 (6th Cir. 2010). The
Second Circuit has held otherwise, Hankins v.
Lyght, 441 F.3d 96, 103–04 (2d Cir. 2006) (holding
that an employer could raise RFRA as a defense to
an employee’s Age Discrimination in Employment
Act (ADEA) claim because the ADEA is enforceable
both by the EEOC and private litigants), but the
court has questioned the correctness of Hankins
given the text of RFRA, Rweyemamu v. Cote, 520
F.3d 198, 203 & n.2 (2d Cir. 2008).
193 Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual,
supra note 145, at 12–I.C.3 (counseling EEOC
investigators to ‘‘take great care’’ in situations
involving the First Amendment and RFRA).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

membership is made up by
coreligionists.194
Courts have recognized that engaging
in secular activities does not disqualify
an employer from being a ‘‘religious
organization’’ within the meaning of
section 702(a).195 Section 702(a) does
not distinguish between nonprofit and
for-profit status, and Title VII case law
has not definitively determined whether
a for-profit corporation that satisfies the
other factors referenced above can
constitute a religious corporation under
Title VII.196 When the religious
organization exemption is asserted by a
respondent employer, the Commission
considers on a case-by-case basis
whether an employer is a religious
organization, utilizing the factors
outlined above; no one factor is
dispositive in determining if a covered
entity is a religious organization under
section 702(a).
Application of Section 702(a) to Sexand Pregnancy-Based Discrimination
and the PWFA
‘‘Religious organizations are subject to
the Title VII prohibitions against
discrimination on the basis of race,
color, sex, and national origin (as well
as the anti-discrimination provisions of
the other EEO laws such as the ADEA,
ADA, and GINA), and they may not
engage in related retaliation.’’ 197
194 LeBoon v. Lancaster Jewish Cmty. Ctr., 503
F.3d 217, 226 (3d Cir. 2007); Religious
Discrimination Compliance Manual, supra note
145, at 12–I.C.1.
195 See, e.g., LeBoon, 503 F.3d at 229 (holding that
a Jewish community center was a religious
organization under Title VII, despite engaging in
secular activities such as secular lectures and
instruction with no religious content, employing
overwhelmingly Gentile employees, and failing to
ban non-kosher foods).
196 Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual,
supra note 145, at 12–I.C.1; see LeBoon, 503 F.3d
at 229 (stating that ‘‘the religious organization
exemption would not extend to an enterprise
involved in a wholly secular and for-profit
activity’’); see also EEOC v. Townley Eng’g & Mfg.
Co., 859 F.2d 610, 619 (9th Cir. 1988) (holding that
evidence the company was for profit, produced a
secular product, was not affiliated with a church,
and did not mention a religious purpose in its
formation documents, indicated that the business
was not ‘‘primarily religious’’ and therefore did not
qualify for the religious organization exemption).
197 Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual,
supra note 145, at 12–I.C.1 n.65 (citing Kennedy v.
St. Joseph’s Ministries, Inc., 657 F.3d 189, 192 (4th
Cir. 2011) (holding that the exemption ‘‘does not
exempt religious organizations from Title VII’s
provisions barring discrimination on the basis of
race, gender, or national origin’’); Boyd v. Harding
Acad. of Memphis, Inc., 88 F.3d 410, 413 (6th Cir.
1996) (stating that the exemption ‘‘does not . . .
exempt religious educational institutions with
respect to all discrimination’’); DeMarco v. Holy
Cross High Sch., 4 F.3d 166, 173 (2d Cir. 1993)
(‘‘Religious institutions that otherwise qualify as
‘employer[s]’ are subject to Title VII provisions
relating to discrimination based on race, gender and
national origin’’); Rayburn v. Gen. Conf. of Seventh-

PO 00000

Frm 00035

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54747

Indeed, every U.S. court of appeals to
have considered the question has held
that section 702(a) does not exempt
religious organizations from Title VII’s
prohibitions against discrimination
when an employment decision is based
upon race, color, sex, or national
origin.198 However, the Commission has
previously stated that a qualified
religious organization may argue as a
defense that it made the challenged
decision on the basis of religion.199
The PWFA addresses sex
discrimination by making it an unlawful
employment practice for a covered
entity to deny a reasonable
accommodation (absent undue
hardship) to a qualified employee with
a known limitation related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions,200 and uses the
same language as Title VII’s definition
of sex.201 Because the PWFA uses the
same language as Title VII and, like
Title VII, addresses sex discrimination,
it is logical that the language in the rule
of construction set forth in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–5(b) of the PWFA should be
interpreted the same as the Title VII
language. The Title VII language does
not categorically exempt religious
organizations from making reasonable
accommodations to the known
limitations of employees under the
PWFA.
Additional Considerations
The Commission’s review of the
comments regarding this provision also
will be informed by the fact that
individuals may bring claims under
Day Adventists, 772 F.2d 1164, 1166 (4th Cir. 1985)
(‘‘While the language of § 702 makes clear that
religious institutions may base relevant hiring
decisions upon religious preferences, Title VII does
not confer upon religious organizations a license to
make those same decisions on the basis of race, sex,
or national origin.’’); cf. Garcia v. Salvation Army,
918 F.3d 997, 1004–05 (9th Cir. 2019) (holding that
Title VII retaliation and hostile work environment
claims related to religious discrimination were
barred by the religious organization exception, but
adjudicating the disability discrimination claim on
the merits)).
198 Id. For additional information about the
Commission’s position on the scope of section
702(a), see Religious Discrimination Compliance
Manual, supra note 145, at 12–I–C.1, nn.67, 69–70.
199 See Religious Discrimination Compliance
Manual, supra note 145, at 12–I–C.1; but see
Rescission of Implementing Legal Requirements
Regarding the Equal Opportunity Clause’s Religious
Exemption Rule, 88 FR 12842, 12854 (Mar. 1, 2023)
(‘‘In OFCCP’s view, however, the cases cited in the
EEOC’s 2021 Compliance Manual do not support
the proposition that asserting such a defense
exempts the organization from the Title VII
prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of
race, color, sex, and national origin.’’).
200 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1); see, e.g., 42 U.S.C.
12112(b)(5)(A) (listing the denial of reasonable
accommodations under the ADA as a type of
discrimination).
201 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4); see 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54748

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

both Title VII and the PWFA; the
legislative history of the PWFA, which
is different from that of Title VII; and
possible decisions by the courts of
appeals in pending cases.202

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Section 1636.8 Severability
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–6
contains a severability provision that
allows for parts of the statute to
continue to be applicable even if other
parts are held invalid as to particular
persons or held unconstitutional. The
proposed regulation repeats the
statutory provision and also addresses
the Commission’s intent regarding the
severability of the Commission’s
proposed regulation.
Following Congress’s rule for the
statute, in places where the proposed
regulation uses the same language as the
statute, if any of those identical
proposed regulatory provisions, or the
application of those provisions to
particular persons or circumstances, is
held invalid or found to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of the
regulation and the application of that
provision of the regulation to other
persons or circumstances shall not be
affected. For example, if § 1636.4(b) of
the regulation is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, it is the intent of the
Commission that the remainder of the
regulation shall not be affected.
In other places, where the proposed
regulation provides additional guidance
to carry out the PWFA, including
examples of reasonable
accommodations, following Congress’s
intent regarding the severability of the
provisions of the statute, it is the
Commission’s intent that if any of those
proposed regulatory provisions or the
application of those provisions to
particular persons or circumstances is
held invalid or found to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of the
regulation and the application of that
provision of the regulation to other
persons or circumstances shall not be
affected. For example, if § 1636.3(j)(4) is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it
is the Commission’s intent that the
remainder of the regulation shall not be
affected.
202 E.g., Billard v. Charlotte Cath. High Sch., No.
3:17–cv–00011, 2021 WL 4037431 (W.D.N.C. Sept.
3, 2021) (rejecting a Catholic school’s argument that
it was exempt from the plaintiff’s sex-based
discrimination claims under Title VII’s religious
exemption provisions), appeal filed (4th Cir. Apr.
25, 2022); Garrick v. Moody Bible Inst., 494 F. Supp.
3d 570, 576–77 (N.D. Ill. 2020) (rejecting religious
educational institution’s argument that it was
exempt, under section 702(a), from the plaintiff’s
sex discrimination and retaliation claims where the
plaintiff alleged that her employer’s asserted
‘‘religious justification [for firing her was] a pretext
for gender discrimination’’) (emphasis in original),
appeal filed (7th Cir. Sept. 14, 2021).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Consolidated List of NPRM Directed
Questions
The Commission encourages the
public to comment on the proposed rule
in general. In addition, the Commission
specifically seeks comment on the
following topics:
1. Section 1636.3(d): Definition of
‘‘Communicated to the Employer’’
The Commission seeks comment on
whether the definition of whom the
employee or applicant may communicate
with to start the reasonable accommodation
process is appropriate, or whether it should
be expanded or limited with the
understanding that the process should not be
burdensome for the worker.
2. Section 1636.3(f)(2)(i)–(iii): Definitions of
‘‘Temporary,’’ ‘‘In the Near Future,’’ and
‘‘The Inability To Perform the Essential
Function Can Be Reasonably
Accommodated’’
The Commission seeks comment regarding
the proposed definitions of the terms from 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(6)(A)–(C) (‘‘temporary,’’ ‘‘in
the near future,’’ and ‘‘the inability to
perform the essential function can be
reasonably accommodated’’), including: (a)
whether the definition of ‘‘in the near future’’
post-pregnancy should be one year rather
than generally forty weeks; (b) whether
periods of temporary suspension of an
essential function during pregnancy and
post-pregnancy should be combined, and, if
so, how should that be done, and what rule
should be adopted to ensure that a pregnant
worker is not required to predict what
limitations they will experience after
pregnancy given that a pregnant worker will
not generally be able to do so; and (c)
whether there are alternative approaches that
would more effectively ensure that workers
are able to seek the accommodations they
need while limiting the burden on covered
entities.
3. Section 1636.3(g): Definition of ‘‘Essential
Functions’’
The Commission seeks comment on
whether there are additional factors that
should be considered in determining whether
a function is essential for purposes of the
PWFA. For example, given that many, if not
all, known limitations under the PWFA will
be temporary, should the definition of
‘‘essential function’’ under the PWFA
consider whether the function is essential to
be performed by the worker in the limited
time for which an accommodation will be
needed.
4. Section 1636.3(h): Ensuring That Workers
Are Not Penalized for Using Reasonable
Accommodations
The Commission seeks comment on its
explanation ensuring that workers are not
penalized for using reasonable
accommodations, whether there are other
situations where this may apply, and
whether examples would be helpful to
illustrate this point.

PO 00000

Frm 00036

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

5. Section 1636.3(i): Reasonable
Accommodation Examples
Throughout the preamble, the Commission
provides examples of reasonable
accommodations and related analysis. The
Commission seeks comment on whether
more examples would be helpful and, if so,
the types of conditions and accommodations
that should be the focus of the additional
examples.
6. Section 1636.3(i) Reasonable
Accommodation Examples
The Commission seeks comment on
whether there are examples or other
information that should be included to
account for situations in which a worker who
already has a reasonable accommodation for
an existing disability (1) develops a known
limitation and needs new accommodations or
modifications to their existing reasonable
accommodations or (2) needs to ensure the
continuation of their disability-related
reasonable accommodations if the worker is
moved to another position or given different
duties as part of the reasonable
accommodation for a known limitation.
Further, the Commission seeks comment on
ways to ensure that in circumstances
described in this question, the respective
accommodations can be provided in a timely
and coordinated way.
7. Section 1636.3(j)(4): Predictable
Assessments of Undue Hardship
The Commission seeks comment on
whether the adoption of the predictable
assessment approach facilitates compliance
with the PWFA by identifying some of the
accommodations most commonly requested
by workers due to pregnancy that are simple,
inexpensive, and easily available. The
Commission further seeks comment on
whether different, fewer, or additional types
of accommodations should be included in
the ‘‘predictable assessment’’ category and
whether the category should include
predictable assessments for childbirth and/or
related medical conditions.
8. Section 1636.3(l): Documentation
A. The Commission seeks comment on its
proposed approach to supporting
documentation, including: (1) whether this
approach strikes the correct balance between
what an employee or applicant can provide
and the interests of the covered entity; (2)
whether it is always reasonable under the
circumstances for covered entities to require
confirmation of a pregnancy beyond selfattestation when the pregnancy is not
obvious; (3) if allowed, whether the
confirmation of a non-obvious pregnancy
should be limited to less invasive methods,
such as the confirmation of a pregnancy
through a urine test; (4) the ability of
employees or applicants to obtain relevant
information from a health care provider,
particularly early in pregnancy; and (5)
whether there are other common limitations
that occur early in pregnancy, such as fatigue
or morning sickness, for which an employer
should not be permitted to require
documentation beyond self-attestation.
B. Section 1636.3(l)(3): Non-Exhaustive
List of Health Care Providers. The
Commission seeks comment on whether

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
other types of health care providers should
be included in the non-exhaustive list in the
regulation.
C. Section 1636.3(l)(3): Appropriate Health
Care Provider to Provide Documentation. The
Commission seeks comment on whether
there are situations in which an employer
should be permitted to require an employee
seeking a reasonable accommodation to be
examined by a health care provider chosen
by the employer; what limits that should be
placed on the employer or the health care
provider; and what effect allowing such an
examination may have on the willingness of
workers to request accommodations under
the PWFA.
9. Section 1636.4(1): Choosing Between
Accommodations
The Commission seeks comment on
whether it should include language in the
rule explaining that an employer may not
unreasonably select an accommodation that
negatively effects an employee’s or
applicant’s employment opportunities or
terms and conditions of employment when
another available accommodation would not
do so or whether the protections in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1) and (5) and 2000gg–2(f) alone
are sufficiently clear in this regard.
10. Section 1636.4(b): Requiring Employee
To Accept an Accommodation
The Commission seeks comment on
whether there are other factual scenarios that
would violate this provision and whether
additional examples would be helpful.
11. Section 1636.4(e): Adverse Action on
Account of Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation
The Commission seeks comment on
whether there are other factual scenarios that
would violate this provision and whether
additional examples would be helpful.
12. Section 1636.7(b): Rule of Construction
The Commission invites the public to
provide examples of:
A. What accommodations provided under
PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1 may impact a
religious organization’s employment of
individuals of a particular religion, and what
accommodations may not impact a religious
organization’s employment of such
individuals;
B. How accommodations provided under
PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1 may affect those
individuals’ performance of work connected
with the religious organization’s activities,
and when they may not affect those
individuals’ performance of such work;
C. When the prohibition on retaliatory or
coercive actions in PWFA, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
2(f) may impact a religious organization’s
employment of individuals of a particular
religion, and when it may not impact a
religious organization’s employment of such
individuals;
D. When prohibiting retaliatory or coercive
actions as described in PWFA, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) may affect those individuals’
performance of work connected with the
religious organization’s activities, and when
it may not affect those individuals’
performance of such work.
E. The Commission also seeks comment
regarding whether any of the above factual

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

scenarios are expected to arise with such
regularity that, to facilitate compliance with
this provision, the public would benefit from
a more detailed rule by the Commission than
the case-by-case approach proposed and
whether there are alternative interpretations
of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) of the PWFA that
commenters believe, given their answers to
questions A–D, that the Commission should
consider.
13. Economic Analysis
A. The Commission has identified five
primary benefits of the proposed rule and
underlying statute. The Commission seeks
comment regarding these and any other
benefits to individuals who may be affected
by the accommodations and protections set
forth in the proposed rule and the PWFA, or
who may have been affected by a lack of such
accommodations and protections in the past,
including qualitative or quantitative research
and anecdotal evidence.
B. The Commission seeks comment
regarding whether the health benefits that are
expected to result from the PWFA and its
implementing regulations are quantifiable; in
particular, the Commission seeks comments
regarding any existing data specifying how
often pregnancy-related health problems may
be attributed to the unavailability of work
accommodations and the resulting cost of
such problems.
C. The Commission seeks comment
regarding the ways in which the proposed
rule and the PWFA enhance human dignity,
including qualitative or quantitative research
and anecdotal evidence addressing this
benefit.
D. The Commission seeks comment
regarding any existing data quantifying the
proportion of pregnant workers who need
workplace accommodations.
E. The Commission seeks comment on
whether the annual cost of providing nonzero cost accommodations should be
calculated based on durable goods with a
useful life of five years.
F. The Commission seeks comment
regarding any existing data quantifying the
average cost of pregnancy-related
accommodations.
G. The Commission seeks comment on
whether 90 minutes accurately captures the
amount of time compliance activities will
take for a covered entity in States that do not
already have laws substantially similar to the
PWFA and for the Federal Government, and
whether 30 minutes accurately captures the
amount of time compliance activities will
take for a covered entity in States that have
existing laws similar to the PWFA.
H. The Commission invites members of the
public to comment on any aspect of this
IRIA, and to submit to the Commission any
data that would further inform the
Commission’s analysis.
I. The Commission seeks comment
regarding its analysis and conclusion that the
regulation will not have a significant
economic impact on small entities; in
particular, the Commission seeks comment
regarding any existing data quantifying
impacts on small entities.
J. The Commission has attempted to draft
this NPRM in plain language. The
Commission invites comment on any aspect

PO 00000

Frm 00037

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54749

of this NPRM that does not meet this
standard.

Executive Orders 12866 (Regulatory
Planning and Review), 13563
(Improving Regulation and Regulatory
Review), and 14094 (Modernizing
Regulatory Review)
I. Introduction
Under Executive Order (E.O.) 12866,
the Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs (OIRA) of the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB)
determines whether a regulatory action
is significant.203 Section 3(f) of E.O.
12866, as amended by E.O. 14094,
defines a ‘‘significant regulatory action’’
as any regulatory action that is likely to
result in a rule that may: (1) have an
annual effect on the economy of $200
million or more (adjusted every three
years by the Administrator of OIRA for
changes in gross domestic product); or
adversely affect in a material way the
economy, a sector of the economy,
productivity, competition, jobs, the
environment, public health or safety, or
State, local, or tribal governments or
communities; (2) create a serious
inconsistency or otherwise interfere
with an action taken or planned by
another agency; (3) materially alter the
budgetary impact of entitlements,
grants, user fees, or loan programs or the
rights and obligations of recipients
thereof; or (4) raise legal or policy issues
for which centralized review would
meaningfully further the President’s
priorities or the principles set forth in
the E.O.204
Executive Orders 12866 and 13563
direct agencies to propose or adopt a
regulation only upon a reasoned
determination that its benefits justify its
costs; that it is tailored to impose the
least burden on society; that it is
consistent with achieving the regulatory
objectives; and that, in choosing among
alternative regulatory approaches, the
agency has selected those approaches
that maximize net benefits.205 E.O.
13563 recognizes that some benefits are
difficult to quantify and provides that,
where appropriate and permitted by
law, agencies may consider and discuss
qualitatively values that are difficult or
impossible to quantify, including
equity, human dignity, fairness, and
distributive impacts.206
203 58 FR 51735, 51737–8 (Oct. 4, 1993), as
amended by Executive Order (E.O.) 14094, 88 FR
21879 (Apr. 11, 2023).
204 58 FR at 51738, as amended by E.O. 14094, 88
FR at 21879.
205 76 FR 3821 (Jan. 21, 2011).
206 Id.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54750

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

II. Summary
Based on our estimates, OIRA has
determined this rulemaking is
significant per E.O. 12866 section
3(f)(1), as amended by E.O. 14094.
Therefore, the Commission has
completed an Initial Regulatory Impact
Analysis (IRIA) as required under E.O.
12866 and E.O. 13563, as amended by
E.O. 14094.
As detailed in the Analysis section
below, the proposed rule and
underlying statute are expected to
provide numerous unquantifiable
benefits to qualified employees and
applicants with known limitations
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, especially in States
that currently do not have laws
substantially similar to the PWFA. It
will also benefit covered entities and the
U.S. economy and society as a whole.
These unquantifiable benefits include
improved maternal and infant health;
improved economic security for
pregnant workers; increased equity,
human dignity, and fairness; improved
clarity of enforcement standards; and
efficiencies in litigation.
The quantitative section in the
analysis below provides estimates of the
two main expected costs associated with
the proposed rule and underlying
statute: (a) annual costs associated with
providing reasonable accommodations
to qualified applicants and employees
with known limitations related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
by employers in States that do not
currently have such a requirement, and
(b) one-time administrative costs for
covered entities, which include
becoming familiar with the rule, posting
new equal employment opportunity
posters,207 and updating EEO policies
and handbooks. The Commission
expresses the quantifiable impacts in
2022 dollars and uses discount rates of
3 and 7 percent, pursuant to OMB
Circular A–4.
The analysis concludes that
approximately 49.4 percent of the
reasonable accommodations that will be
required by the rule and underlying
statute will have no cost to covered
entities, and that the average annual
cost for the remaining 50.6 percent of
such accommodations is approximately
$60.00 per year per accommodation.
Taking into account that many entities
covered by the PWFA are already
required to provide such
207 The Commission posted an updated poster on
its website (https://www.eeoc.gov/poster) prior
concurrent with the PWFA’s effective date of June
27, 2023.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

accommodations under State and local
laws, the total impact on the U.S.
economy to provide reasonable
accommodations under the rule and
underlying statute is estimated to be
between $7.1 million and $21.2 million
per year.
The estimated one-time costs
associated with administrative tasks is
quite low on a per-establishment basis—
between $56.76 and $170.27, depending
on the State. Despite the low perestablishment cost, the proposed rule is
a ‘‘significant regulatory action’’ under
section 3(f)(1) of E.O. 12866, as
amended by E.O. 14094, because the
number of regulated entities—hence the
number of entities expected to incur
one-time administrative costs—is
extremely large (including all public
and private employers with 15 or more
employees and the Federal
Government). As a result, the
Commission has concluded that the
overall cost to the U.S. economy will be
in excess of $200 million.208 Of course,
this does not take into account the
previous cost of gender inequality in the
labor market and the fact that PWFA
will improve gender equality and thus
have a positive effect on the economy.
III. Preliminary Economic Analysis of
Impacts
A. The Need for Regulatory Action
The PWFA and the proposed
regulation respond to the previously
limited Federal legal protections that
provide accommodations for workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. Although
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq. (as amended by
the Pregnancy Discrimination Act
(PDA)) (Title VII) provided some
protections for workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth or related medical
conditions, court decisions regarding
the ability of workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to obtain workplace
accommodations created ‘‘unworkable’’
standards that did not adequately
protect pregnant workers.209 Similarly,
208 H.R. Report No. 117–27, pt.1, at 41 (2021) (the
Congressional Budget Office (CBO) did not review
the PWFA for intergovernmental or private-sector
mandates because ‘‘[s]ection 4 of the Unfunded
Mandates Reform Act excludes from the application
of that act any legislative provision that would
establish or enforce statutory rights prohibiting
discrimination,’’ and CBO ‘‘determined that the bill
falls within that exclusion because it would extend
protections against discrimination in the workplace
based on sex to employees requesting reasonable
accommodations for pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’).
209 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 14–16 (2021)
(describing court rulings under Title VII and the
Supreme Court’s decision in Young v. United Parcel

PO 00000

Frm 00038

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

prior to the PWFA, some pregnant
workers could obtain protections under
the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990, 42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq. (ADA), but
these were limited.210 Pregnant workers
who could not obtain accommodations
risked their economic security which
had harmful effects for themselves and
their families.211 Furthermore, the loss
of a job can affect a pregnant worker’s
economic security for decades, as they
lose out on ‘‘retirement contributions
. . . short term disability benefits,
seniority, pensions, social security
contributions, life insurance, and
more.’’ 212Additionally, the lack of
workplace accommodation can harm the
health of the worker and their
pregnancy.213 While numerous States
have laws that provide for
accommodations for pregnant workers,
the lack of a national standard before
the passage of the PWFA meant that
workers’ rights varied depending on the
State and that millions of workers were
unprotected.214
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a)
provides:
Not later than 1 year after [the date of
enactment of the Act,], the Commission shall
issue regulations in an accessible format in
accordance with subchapter II of chapter 5 of
title 5[, United States Code,] to carry out this
chapter. Such regulations shall provide
examples of reasonable accommodations
addressing known limitations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.

Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3, the
EEOC is issuing this proposed rule
following the procedures codified at 5
U.S.C. 553(b).
B. Baseline
The PWFA is a new law that requires
covered entities to provide reasonable
accommodations to the known
limitations related to, arising out of, or
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions of qualified
employees. As set out in the NPRM, the
Serv., Inc, 575 U.S. 206 (2015); see supra Preamble
of Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM).
210 Id. at 19–21 (describing court decisions under
the ADA the failed to find coverage for workers
with pregnancy-related disabilities).
211 Id. at 22 (‘‘When pregnant workers are not
provided reasonable accommodations on the job,
they are oftentimes forced to choose between
economic security and their health or the health of
their babies’’); id. at 24 (noting that ‘‘families
increasingly rely on pregnant workers’ incomes.’’).
212 Id. at 25.
213 Id. at 22. (‘‘According to the American College
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG),
providing reasonable accommodations to pregnant
workers is critical for the health of women and their
children’’); id. (describing how a lack of an
accommodation led to a miscarriage for a worker).
214 See infra Table 1 for a calculation of the
number of workers who live in states without
PWFA-analog laws.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
PWFA seeks to fill gaps in the Federal
and State legal landscape regarding
protections for workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.
Workers affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
have certain rights under existing civil
rights laws, such as Title VII, the ADA,
the Family and Medical Leave Act of
1993, 29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. (FMLA),
and various State and local laws.215
Under Title VII, a worker affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions may be able to
obtain a workplace modification to
allow them to continue to work.216
Typically courts have only found in
favor of such claims if the worker can
identify another individual similar in
their ability or inability to work who
received such an accommodation, or if
there is some direct evidence of
disparate treatment (such as a biased
comment or a policy that, on its face,
excludes pregnant workers). However,
there may not always be similarly
situated employees. For this reason,
some pregnant workers have not
received simple, common-sense
accommodations, such as a stool for a
cashier 217 or bathroom breaks for a
preschool teacher.218 And even when
the pregnant worker can identify other
workers who are similar in their ability
or inability to work, some courts have
still not found a Title VII violation.219

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

215 For a list of State laws, see infra Table 1. In

addition, Federal laws regarding Federal funding
such as Title IX of the Education Amendments Act
of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.) and the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunities Act (29 U.S.C. 3240)
provide protection from sex discrimination,
including discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions.
216 As relevant here, Title VII protects workers
from discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical ‘‘with respect to . . .
compensation, terms, conditions., or privileges of
employment[] because of such individual’s . . .
sex.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1). Discrimination
because of sex includes discrimination based on
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k). Title VII also
provides that ‘‘women affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions shall be
treated the same for all employment-related
purposes, including receipt of benefits under fringe
benefit programs, as other persons not so affected
but similar in their ability or inability to work.’’ Id.
217 See, e.g., Portillo v. IL Creations Inc., 2019 WL
1440129, at *5 (D.D.C. Mar. 31, 2019).
218 See, e.g., Wadley v. Kiddie Acad. Int’l, Inc.,
2018 WL 3035785, at *4 (E.D. Pa. June 19, 2018).
219 See, e.g., EEOC v. Wal-mart Stores East, L.P.,
46 F.4th 587, 597–99 (7th Cir. 2022) (concluding
that the employer did not engage in discrimination
when it failed to accommodate pregnant workers
with light duty assignments, even though the
employer provided light duty assignments for
workers who were injured on the job); but see, e.g.,
Legg v. Ulster Cnty., 820 F.3d 67, 69, 75–77 (2d Cir.
2016) (vacating judgment for the employer where
officers injured on the job were entitled to light
duty but pregnant workers were not).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Under the ADA, certain workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions may have the
right to accommodations if they show
that they have an ADA disability; this
standard does not include pregnancy
itself but instead requires the showing
of a pregnancy-related disability.220
Under the FMLA, covered workers
can receive up to 12 weeks of jobprotected unpaid leave for, among other
things, a serious health condition, the
birth of a child, and bonding with a
newborn within one year of birth.221
However, employees must work for an
employer with 50 or more employees
within 75 miles of their worksite and
meet certain tenure requirements in
order to be entitled to FMLA leave.222
Survey data from 2018 show that only
56 percent of employees are eligible for
FMLA leave.223 Further, the FMLA only
provides unpaid leave—it does not
require reasonable accommodations that
would allow workers to stay on the job
and continue to be paid.
As set out in Table 1, thirty States
currently have laws similar to the
PWFA that provide for accommodations
for pregnant workers. In most States,
again as set out in Table 1, the State
laws cover the same employers that are
covered by the PWFA. Workers in the
remainder of the States and Federal
Government workers have the rights set
out in the Federal laws described above
and, until the passage of the PWFA, did
not have the protections of a law like
the PWFA.
C. Nonquantifiable Benefits
The proposed rule and the underlying
statute create many important benefits
that stem from ‘‘values that are difficult
or impossible to quantify,’’ including
‘‘equity, human dignity, [and]
fairness.’’ 224 The Commission has
identified five primary benefits of the
proposed rule and underlying statute.
The Commission seeks comment
regarding these and any other benefits to
individuals who may be affected by the
accommodations and protections set
forth in the proposed rule and the
PWFA, or who may have been affected
by a lack of such accommodations and
protections in the past, including
220 42 U.S.C. 12102(2) & (4); 29 CFR part 1630
app. 1630(h); EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination and Related Issues II
(2015), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
enforcement-guidance-pregnancy-discriminationand-related-issues [hereinafter Enforcement
Guidance on Pregnancy Discrimination].
221 29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1); 29 CFR 825.120.
222 29 U.S.C. 2611(2)(A), (B).
223 Brown et al., supra note 14.
224 76 FR 3821, supra note 205.

PO 00000

Frm 00039

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54751

qualitative or quantitative research and
anecdotal evidence.
1. Improvements in Health for Pregnant
Workers and Their Babies
Congress enacted the PWFA in large
part to improve maternal and infant
health outcomes. The legislative history
emphasizes that the new law was
needed because ‘‘[n]o worker should
have to choose between their health, the
health of their pregnancy, and the
ability to earn a living.’’ 225 Congress
further concluded that ‘‘providing
reasonable accommodations to pregnant
workers is critical to the health of
women and their children.’’ 226 The
need to improve the health of health
outcome surrounding pregnancy is
critical—as a recent report noted,
‘‘women in our country are dying at a
higher rate from pregnancy-related
causes than in any other developed
nation.’’ 227 Additionally, ‘‘Black
women are more than three times as
likely as White women to die from
pregnancy-related causes, while
American Indian/Alaska Native
[women] are more than twice as
likely’’ 228 and a recent study shows that
negative health outcomes during
pregnancy disproportionately affect
Black women compared to White
women regardless of wealth.229
Some studies have shown increased
risk of miscarriage,230 preterm birth,231
225 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 11.
226 Id. at 11, 22.
227 White House, White House Blueprint for
Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis 1 (2022),
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/
2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf.
228 Id. at 15.
229 Kate Kennedy-Moulton et al., Maternal and
Infant Health Inequality: New Evidence from Linked
Administrative Data 5 (Nat’l Bureau of Econ. Rsch.,
Working Paper No. 30,693, 2022), https://
www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/
w30693/w30693.pdf (finding that maternal and
infant health vary with income, but infant and
maternal health in Black families at the top of the
income distribution is similar to or worse than that
of White families at the bottom of the income
distribution).
230 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 22; Am. Coll.
of Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion
No. 733, Employment Considerations During
Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period e119 (2018),
https://www.acog.org/-/media/project/acog/
acogorg/clinical/files/committee-opinion/articles/
2018/04/employment-considerations-duringpregnancy-and-the-postpartum-period.pdf
[hereinafter ACOG Committee Opinion] (discussing
studies that showed an increased risk of miscarriage
or stillbirth associated with night work, working
more than 40 hours a week, or extensive lifting, but
noting that ‘‘[i]t is difficult to draw definitive
conclusions from these studies.’’).
231 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 22; ACOG
Committee Opinion, supra note 230, at e119–20
(discussing studies that found a ‘‘slight to modest
risked increase’’ of preterm birth with some work
conditions, but also noting that it is hard to know

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

Continued

11AUP2

54752

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

low birth weight, urinary tract
infections, fainting, and other health
problems for pregnant workers because
of workplace conditions.232 Several
witnesses submitted personal stories to
Congress connecting the lack of
accommodations at work and dangers to
the health of the employee or their
pregnancy.233 Further, both the
legislative history of the PWFA and
surveys of pregnant workers
demonstrate that denial of reasonable
accommodations at work may
negatively impact not only the physical
health of pregnant workers and their
families, but also their mental health by
contributing to emotional stress,
anxiety, and fear.234
whether these results were due to ‘‘bias and
confounding or to an actual effect’’).
232 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 22; see also
Kaylee J. Hackney et al., Examining the Effects of
Perceived Pregnancy Discrimination on Mother and
Baby Health, 106 J. Applied Psych. 774, 781 (2021)
[hereinafter Hackney Study] (describing two studies
that demonstrated that perceived pregnancy
discrimination serves as a threat to women’s
resources which leads to increased postpartum
depressive symptoms for mothers, decreased birth
weight and gestational age, and increased doctors’
visits for their babies, via mothers’ stress); Renee
Mehra et al., ‘‘Oh Gosh, Why Go? ’Cause They Are
Going to Look At Me and Not Hire’’: Intersectional
Experiences of Black Women Navigating
Employment During Pregnancy and Parenting,
23:17 BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth 2 (2023),
https://
bmcpregnancychildbirth.biomedcentral.com/
articles/10.1186/s12884-022-05268-9 [hereinafter
Mehra Study] (describing studies that found that
policies that protect women in the workplace
during pregnancy and the postpartum period are
important for maternal and infant health outcomes);
H. M. Salihu et al., Pregnancy In the Workplace, 62
Occupational Med. 88, 94 (2012), https://
academic.oup.com/occmed/article/62/2/88/
1480061?login=false [hereinafter Salihu Study]
(finding that while physically demanding jobs do
not pose a substantial risk to fetal health, ‘‘[a]
moderate temporary reduction in job physicality
may promote improved maternal and foetal
health’’); ACOG Committee Opinion, supra note
230, at e117 (discussing modifications for physical
work and how they could help the health of
pregnant workers).
233 See, e.g., Long Over Due, supra note 2
(statement from the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters) (discussing attached New York Times
article concerning workers’ miscarriages at a
warehouse in Tennessee after the workers had been
denied light duty); id. at 41 (statement of Dina
Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better
Balance) (describing worker denied accommodation
of access to water who ended up in the ER with
severe dehydration), id. at 94 (statement of Dina
Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better
Balance) (presenting testimony about a pregnant
worker denied a lifting accommodation who
suffered a miscarriage); H.R. Report No. 117–27,
pt.1, at 23 (statement of Rep. Jahana Hayes)
(describing how the denial of bathroom breaks
during her pregnancy ‘‘led to further complications
with bladder issues so what started out as an
uneventful pregnancy ended up having
complications as a result of this minor
accommodation not being met’’).
234 Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 92 (statement
of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better
Balance) (describing clients ‘‘who have suffered

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Moreover, workers who do not receive
needed accommodations, and who quit
their jobs as a result in order to maintain
a healthy pregnancy, often lose
employer-sponsored health
insurance.235 In a letter to Congress, a
group of leading health care practitioner
organizations explained that when a
pregnant worker loses health insurance,
‘‘the impact on both mother and baby
may be long-lasting and severe. One of
the main predictors of a healthy
pregnancy is early and consistent
prenatal care. Loss of employment and
health benefits impact family resources,
threatening the ability to access vital
health care when a woman needs it the
most.’’ 236
Finally, by helping pregnant workers
avoid health risks to themselves and
their pregnancies, the PWFA will help
contribute to improved maternal and
child health and lower health care costs
nationally.
The Commission did not attempt to
quantify the health benefits that are
expected to result from the PWFA and
its implementing regulations, however,
because it is unaware of any data
specifying precisely how often
pregnancy-related health problems may
be attributed specifically to the
profound emotional stress’’ when they were forced
out of jobs due to lack of accommodations); id. at
14–15 (statement of Kimberlie Michelle Durham)
(testifying that her pregnancy was filled with
anxiety and fear due to denial of accommodation);
see also Mehra Study, supra note 232, at 7–8
(describing the experience of pregnant women
experiencing or planning around pregnancy
discrimination and bias and lack of family-friendly
workplace policies throughout their reproductive
years in a way that caused immense financial
burden and stress); id. at 11 (reporting that ‘‘Black
people with the capacity for pregnancy experienced
pregnancy discrimination and bias which was
harmful to their . . . mental health’’); Hackney
Study, supra note 232, at 780 (stating that women
who perceived pregnancy discrimination at work
were more likely to suffer from postpartum
depressive symptoms); Salihu Study, supra note
232, at 95 (noting that the impact of work culture
can have profound implications for maternal
psychosocial health).
235 Fighting for Fairness, supra note 2 (statement
of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better
Balance) (describing workers who lose their income
and, as a result, lose their health insurance, forcing
them to delay or avoid critical pre- or post-natal
care).
236 Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 142 (including
a letter from professional medical associations,
including the American Academy of Family
Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics,
the American Public Health Association, the
American College of Nurse-Midwives, the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the
Association of Women’s Health, Obstetric and
Neonatal Nurses, the National Alliance to Advance
Adolescent Health, and Physicians for Reproductive
Health); Fighting for Fairness, supra note 235, at
30–31 (statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder and
Co-President, A Better Balance) (discussing Julia
Barton, a pregnant corrections officer who quit her
job because she did not receive an accommodation
and therefore lost her health insurance).

PO 00000

Frm 00040

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

unavailability of work accommodations
and the resulting cost of such problems.
The Commission seeks comment
regarding whether the health benefits
that are expected to result from the
PWFA and its implementing regulations
are quantifiable; in particular, the
Commission seeks comments regarding
any existing data specifying how often
pregnancy-related health problems may
be attributed to the unavailability of
work accommodations and the resulting
cost of such problems.
2. Improvements in Pregnant Workers’
Economic Security
Access to reasonable accommodations
at work will help workers with
limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to stay in the workforce, maintain their
income, and provide for themselves and
their families.237 Based on anecdotal
evidence, unavailability of
accommodations often forces workers to
take unpaid leave, quit their jobs, or
seek jobs that are potentially less
lucrative, threatening their economic
security.238 The lack of an
accommodation may also have farreaching economic effects. As the House
Committee on Education and Labor
Report for the PWFA stated, ‘‘[p]regnant
workers who are pushed out of the
workplace might feel the effects for
decades, losing out on everything from
401(k) or other retirement contributions
to short-term disability benefits,
seniority, pensions, social security
contributions, life insurance, and
more.’’ 239 Provision of reasonable
accommodations may also have
economic benefits to society as a whole
by keeping people attached to the labor
force and lowering the likelihood of
some workers being compelled to seek
public assistance after they are forced to
quit their jobs.240
237 The Commission is not able to monetize or
quantify this benefit because, although anecdotal
evidence establishes that lack of accommodation
has led workers to quit their jobs, there are no data
on how frequently this happens.
238 Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 15 (statement
of Kimberlie Michelle Durham) (describing losing
her job because she needed an accommodation and
explaining that her new job did not provide
overtime or benefits); id. at 150–53 (letter from the
ACLU) (describing the ACLU’s legal representation
of pregnant workers, many of whom were forced to
take unpaid leave or lost their jobs).
239 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 21–22, 25.
240 See Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 15
(statement of Kimberlie Michelle Durham)
(describing when she was forced to go on unpaid
leave after she asked for an accommodation and, as
a consequence, was unable to find new
employment, moved back in with family, and was
unable to find a job with benefits comparable to
those offered by her EMT job, including health
insurance; her child is on Medicaid); id. at 41
(statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Providing needed workplace
accommodations to qualified applicants
and employees with limitations related
to, arising out of, or affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions is another step
toward ensuring women’s continued
and increased participation in the labor
force.241 Women’s increasing labor force
participation was one of the most
notable labor market developments in
the United States in the second half of
the 20th century, helping drive
economic growth.242 In 2022, 57 percent
of all women participated in the labor
force.243 This is significantly higher
than the 34 percent participation rate in
1950.244 Among other things, women’s
participation in the labor force is
heavily impacted by pregnancy and the
demands associated with raising young
children.245 The passage of the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 42 U.S.C.
2000e et seq. (PDA) in 1978, which
prohibits employment discrimination
based on pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions and requires
that women affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
be treated the same as other individuals
similar in their ability or inability to
work, increased the participation rate of
pregnant women in the labor market.246
President, A Better Balance) (discussing a pregnant
cashier who needed lifting restriction but was sent
home and, without income, became homeless); id.
at 46 (statement of Dina Bakst) (discussing an
armored truck company employee who requested to
avoid heavy lifting at the end of pregnancy but was
instead sent home; as a result, she lost health
insurance and needed to rely on public benefits
such as food stamps); id. at 70 (statement of Dina
Bakst) (presenting stories from State legislatures
that describe savings to government assistance
programs stemming from the passage of PWFA-like
laws in their states).
241 Id. at 25 (statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice
President of Government Affairs & Public Policy,
Greater Louisville, Inc., The Metro Chamber of
Commerce) (‘‘[T]he Act will help boost our
country’s workforce participation rate among
women. In states like Kentucky, which ranks 44th
in the nation for female labor participation, we
know one contributor to this abysmal statistic is a
pregnant worker who is forced out or quits a job
due to a lack of reasonable workplace
accommodations.’’).
242 Women In the Labor Force: A Databook, BLS
Reports, Bureau of Lab. Stat. (Mar. 2022), https://
www.bls.gov/opub/reports/womens-databook/2021/
home.htm).
243 Employment Status of the Civilian
Noninstitutional Population by Age, Sex, and Race,
U.S. Bureau of Lab. Stat. (Jan. 25, 2023), https://
www.bls.gov/cps/cpsaat03.htm.
244 Labor Force Participation Rate—Women, Fed.
Rsrv. Bank of St. Louis (June 9, 2023), https://
fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS11300002.
245 Catherine Doren, Is Two Too Many? Parity and
Mothers’ Labor Force Exit, 81 J. of Marriage & Fam.
327, 341 (April 2019) (‘‘transition to motherhood is
the primary turning point in women’s labor force
participation’’).
246 Sankar Mukhopadhyay, The Effects of the
1978 Pregnancy Discrimination Act on Female
Labor Supply, 53 Int’l Econ. Rev. 1133 (2012).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

As of 2021, over 66 percent of women
in the United States who gave birth in
the prior year were in the labor force,247
up from about 57 percent in 2006.248
Moreover, an increasing number of
pregnant workers are working later into
their pregnancies—over 65 percent of
first-time mothers who worked during
their pregnancy worked into the last
month before their child’s birth.249 By
requiring reasonable accommodations
for workers with conditions related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions, the PWFA and this
proposed rule will further support and
enhance women’s labor force
participation, and, in turn, grow the
U.S. economy.
3. Non-Discrimination and Other
Intrinsic Benefits
Providing accommodations to workers
with limitations related to, arising out
of, or affected by pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions also has
important implications for equity,
human dignity, and fairness.
First, by allowing pregnant workers to
care for their health and the health of
their pregnancies, the PWFA enhances
human dignity. Workers will be able to
prioritize their health and the health of
their future children, giving their
children the best possible start in life
while also protecting their economic
security. The Commission seeks
comment regarding the ways in which
the proposed rule and the PWFA
enhance human dignity, including
qualitative or quantitative research and
anecdotal evidence addressing this
benefit.
Second, the PWFA will diminish the
incidence of sex discrimination against
qualified workers, enable them to reach
their full potential, reduce exclusion,
and promote self-respect. The statute
and the proposed regulations provide
for reasonable accommodations to
workers who would otherwise not
receive them and thus could be forced
to leave their jobs or the workforce
because of their pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. Next, the
statute and the proposed regulation
require a covered entity to engage an
employee in an interactive process,
rather than simply assigning the
247 Births in the Past Year and Labor Force
Participation, supra note 23, (select ‘‘Historical
Table 5’’); see also IPUMS Data, supra note 23.
(Data are available by request to registered IPUMS
USA users; please contact ipums@umn.edu.
248 Births in the Past Year and Labor Force
Participation, supra note 23, (select ‘‘Historical
Table 5’’).
249 Maternity Leave and Employment Patterns of
First-Time Mothers, supra note 25.

PO 00000

Frm 00041

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54753

employee an accommodation, which
combats stereotypes about the
capabilities of workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. Finally, the statute
and the proposed regulations protect
workers against retaliation and coercion
for using the protections of the statute.
These protections against
discrimination promote human dignity
and equity by enabling qualified
workers to participate or continue to
participate in the workforce.250
Third, because the PWFA applies to
so many covered entities, it will
improve equity in the workforce.
Currently, workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions in higher paying
jobs and non-physical jobs are much
more likely to be able to control their
schedules, take bathroom breaks, eat,
drink water, or telework when
necessary.251 These workers may not
have to request accommodations from
their employers to meet many of their
pregnancy-related needs. Workers in
low-paid jobs, however, are much less
likely to be able to organize their
schedules to allow them to take breaks
that may be necessary due to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.252 Nearly one-third of Black
250 See Salihu Study, supra note 232, at 94
(finding that ‘‘[w]omen who perceive employers
and superiors as supportive are more likely to
return to work after childbirth. This reduces the risk
to employers regarding loss in skill and training.
Similarly, businesses that plan for and proactively
approach pregnancy in the workplace show lower
rates of quitting and greater ease of shifting
workloads in the event of a pregnancy, which
increases productivity and decreases losses’’); Long
Over Due, supra note 2, at 15 (testimony of
Kimberlie Michelle Durham) (‘‘I wanted to work. I
loved my job); see also Salihu Study, supra note
232, at 93 (describing steps pregnant women take
to combat the perception that they are a liability in
the workforce and reinforce their role as
‘‘professionals’’); Long Over Due, supra note 2, at
41 (statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & CoPresident, A Better Balance) (describing a worker
who was denied an accommodation but who
‘‘desperately wanted to continue working’’);
Hackney Study, supra note 232, at 780 (explaining
that managers may make incorrect assumptions
about what pregnant employees want, such as
assuming a reduced workload is beneficial, whereas
pregnant workers might find this accommodation
demeaning or discriminatory, and noting the
importance of managers ‘‘hav[ing] an open dialogue
with their employees about what types of support
[are] needed and desired’’).
251 Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 83 (statement
of Rep. Barbara Lee) (describing her own pregnancy,
which required bedrest, and contrasting her
experience with the experience of workers in less
flexible jobs).
252 Fighting for Fairness, supra note 2235, at 108
(statement of Fatima Goss Graves, President and
CEO of the National Women’s Law Center) (‘‘[O]ver
40% of full-time workers in low-paid jobs report
that their employers do not permit them to decide
when to take breaks, and roughly half report having

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

Continued

11AUP2

54754

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

and Latina workers are in low-paid
jobs,253 the types of jobs that are less
likely to currently provide
accommodations.254 Therefore, the
PWFA and this proposed rule will
improve equity in the workforce by
ensuring that low-paid workers,
including Black and Latina workers,
who may have a more difficult time
securing voluntary accommodations,
will have a right to them.
Fourth, providing reasonable
accommodations to workers who would
otherwise have been denied them yields
third-party benefits that include
diminishing stereotypes regarding
workers who are experiencing
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; 255 promoting
design, availability, and awareness of
accommodations that can have benefits
for the general public, including nonpregnant workers, and attitudinal
benefits; 256 increasing understanding
and fairness in the workplace; 257 and
creating less discriminatory work
environments that benefit workers,
employers, and society.258
very little or no control over the scheduling of
hours.’’).
253 Id.
254 Id. at 204 (Letter from the National Partnership
for Women & Families) (stating that women of color
and immigrants are ‘‘disproportionately likely to
work in jobs and industries where accommodations
during pregnancy are not often provided (such as
working as home health aides, food service workers,
package handlers, and cleaners’’); id. at 207–08
(Letter from Physicians for Reproductive Choice)
(stating that ‘‘the absence of legislation like the
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act disproportionately
impacts pregnant people with low-incomes and
migrant workers who are more likely to work in
arduous settings. These are the same communities
that are also most at risk of experiencing increased
maternal mortality.’’).
255 See Salihu Study, supra note 232, at 93
(describing studies that have ‘‘substantiated the
pervasiveness of negative perceptions of pregnant
women’’ and the common belief that they serve as
a liability in the workplace); id. at 94–95
(concluding that the issue of pregnancy in the
workplace needs to be addressed proactively with
an emphasis on combating stereotypes of pregnant
women as incompetent or uncommitted).
256 See Elizabeth F. Emens, Integrating
Accommodation, 156 U. Pa. L. Rev. 839, 850–59
(2008) (describing a wide range of potential thirdparty benefits that may arise from workplace
accommodations for individuals with disabilities,
many of which are also relevant to accommodations
for individuals protected by the PWFA).
257 See id. at 883–96 (describing attitudinal thirdparty benefits that arise when co-workers work with
individuals receiving accommodations in the
workplace under the ADA, many of which are
relevant to accommodations for individuals
protected by the PWFA).
258 See Long Over Due, supra note 2, at 3
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici) (describing
the PWFA as ‘‘an opportunity for Congress to
finally fulfill the promise of the Pregnancy
Discrimination Act and take an important step
towards workplace gender equity,’’ among other
benefits).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

4. Clarity in Enforcement and
Efficiencies in Litigation
Congress, in describing the goals of
the PWFA, also focused on the clarity
that the PWFA would bring to the
question of when employers must
provide accommodations for limitations
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions: ‘‘The PWFA
eliminates a lack of clarity in the current
legal framework that has frustrated
pregnant workers’ legal rights to
reasonable accommodations while
providing clear guidance to both
workers and employers.’’ 259 By creating
a national standard, the PWFA also may
increase compliance with State laws
requiring accommodations for pregnant
workers,260 as coming into compliance
with the PWFA may increase
employers’ knowledge about these laws
in general.
Additionally, by clarifying the rules
regarding accommodations for pregnant
workers, the PWFA and the proposed
rule will decrease the need for litigation
regarding accommodations under the
PWFA. To the extent that litigation
remains unavoidable in certain
circumstances, the PWFA and the
proposed rule are expected to eliminate
the need to litigate whether the
condition in question is a ‘‘disability’’
under the ADA, and to limit discovery
and litigation costs that arise under Title
VII regarding determining if there are
valid comparators, thus streamlining the
issues requiring judicial attention.261
5. Benefits for Covered Entities
Providing accommodations needed
due to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions also are likely to
provide benefits to covered entities. By
providing accommodations to workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
259 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt.1, at 11; id. at 31
(‘‘By guaranteeing pregnant workers the right to
reasonable accommodations in the workplace, the
PWFA could also decrease employers’ legal
uncertainty.’’); see also Long Over Due, supra note
2, at 24 (statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice President of
Government Affairs & Public Policy, Greater
Louisville, Inc., Metro Chamber of Commerce) (‘‘For
our members, uncertainty means dollars. A
consistent and predictable legal landscape means a
business-friendly environment. Before Kentucky’s
law was enacted this summer, our employers were
forced to navigate a complex web of Federal laws
and court decisions to figure out their obligations.
And now this guidance is especially beneficial for
the smaller companies we represent who cannot
afford expensive legal advisors.’’).
260 See infra Table 1 for a list of these laws.
261 See H.R. Report No. 117–27, pt.1, at 14–17
(describing the need to find comparators under
Title VII and the difficulties it has caused pregnant
workers seeking accommodations); id. at 17–21
(describing the protections available for pregnant
workers under the ADA and the fact that frequently
even pregnancies with severe complications are
found by courts not to be ‘‘disabilities’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00042

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

related medical conditions and retaining
them as employees, employers will save
money from having to replace and train
a new employee. According to one
study, 85 percent of employers that
provided accommodations to
individuals with disabilities reported
that doing so enabled them to retain a
valued employee; 53 percent reported
an increase in that employee’s
productivity; 46 percent reported
elimination of costs associated with
training a new employee; 48 percent
reported an increase in that employee’s
attendance; 33 percent noted that
providing the accommodation increased
diversity in the company; and 23
percent reported a decrease in workers’
compensation or other costs. Employers
also noted several indirect benefits: 30
percent noted an increase in company
morale, and 21 percent noted an
increase in overall company
productivity.262
D. Costs
1. Covered Entities and Existing Legal
Landscape
Entities covered by the PWFA and the
proposed regulation include all
employers covered by Title VII and the
Government Employee Rights Act of
1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16b, 2000e–16c
(GERA), including private and public
sector employers with at least 15
employees, Federal agencies,
employment agencies, and labor
organizations.263
In addition to the legal protections
described earlier in the preamble
pertaining to Title VII, the ADA, and the
FMLA, there are three other important
legal considerations that impact the
costs of accommodations under the
PWFA and this regulation.
First, 30 States and five localities have
laws substantially similar to the PWFA,
requiring covered employers to provide
reasonable accommodations to pregnant
workers.264 As a result, this proposed
rule will impose minimal, if any,
additional costs on the covered entities
in these States and localities.265
262 Costs and Benefits of Accommodation, supra
note 33.
263 See 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(2)(A). The PWFA also
applies to employers covered by the Congressional
Accountability Act (CAA) of 1995 (42 U.S.C.
2000gg(2)(B)(ii)). The proposed regulation does not
apply to employers covered under CAA, as the
Commission does not have the authority to enforce
the PWFA with respect to employees covered by the
CAA
264 See infra Table 1; see also Employment
Protections for Workers Who Are Pregnant or
Nursing, supra note 5.
265 The PWFA analogs in Alaska, North Carolina
and Texas only cover certain public employers. The
laws in Louisiana and Minnesota apply to
employers larger than the PWFA threshold of 15

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
Second, when it enacted the PWFA,
Congress also enacted the Providing
Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing
Mothers Act (PUMP Act), which
requires employers who are covered by
the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C.
201 et seq., (FLSA) to provide
reasonable break time for an employee
to express breast milk for their nursing
child each time such employee has need
to express milk for one year after the
child’s birth. The PUMP Act also
requires employers to provide a place to
pump at work, other than a bathroom,
that is shielded from view and free from
intrusion from coworkers and the
public.266 As a result, the Commission
anticipates that most workers will not
need to seek reasonable
accommodations regarding a time and
place to pump at work under the PWFA
because they will already be entitled to
these under the PUMP Act.
Third, the Federal Government
provides 12 weeks of paid parental
leave to eligible Federal employees
upon the birth of a new child.267 As a

result, these Federal workers may make
fewer requests for leave as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA as
they are already guaranteed a certain
amount of paid leave.
2. Estimate of the Number of Reasonable
Accommodations That Will Be Provided
as a Result of the Proposed Rule and
Underlying Statute
As set out in Tables 1 and 2 and
explained in detail infra, the proposed
rule and underlying statute cover
approximately 117 million employees of
private establishments with 15 or more
employees, 18.8 million State and local
government employees, and 2.3 million
Federal employees. Only a small
percentage of these employees are
expected to seek and be entitled to
accommodations as a result of the
proposed rule and underlying statute.
Approximately 52 percent of private
sector enterprises with 15 or more
employees in the United States (1.4
million establishments), employing
about 61.2 million workers (accounting
for 52 percent of employment in those

54755

States) are currently subject to State or
local laws that are substantially similar
to the PWFA. The enactment of the
PWFA and promulgation of the
proposed rule, therefore, should not
result in additional accommodationrelated costs for these employers.
Subtracting 61.2 million workers from
the total number of covered workers
employed by private sector enterprises
(117 million) yields a total of
approximately 55.5 million employees
of private sector establishments who
will be covered by the proposed rule
and underlying statute, and who are not
also covered by State or local laws that
are substantially similar to the PWFA.
Tables 1 and 2 display each State’s
share of the total national number of
private sector establishments that have
15 or more employees and thus will be
subject to the PWFA, and the percentage
of workers in the State employed by
such establishments. States with laws
substantially similar to the PWFA are in
Table 1; States without such a law are
in Table 2.

TABLE 1—SHARE OF EMPLOYERS WITH 15 OR MORE EMPLOYEES IN STATES ALREADY SUBJECT TO LOCAL PREGNANCY
ACCOMMODATION LAWS SIMILAR TO THE PWFA 268
Share in U.S. Total 269
State

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

California ..............................
Colorado ..............................
Connecticut ..........................
Delaware ..............................
District of Columbia .............
Hawaii ..................................
Illinois ...................................
Kentucky ..............................
Louisiana 271 ........................
Maine ...................................
Maryland ..............................
Massachusetts .....................
Minnesota 272 .......................
Nebraska .............................
Nevada ................................
New Jersey ..........................
New Mexico .........................
New York .............................

Cal. Gov’t Code sec. 12945(a)(3) .....................................
Colo. Rev. Stat. sec. 24–34–402.3 ...................................
Conn. Gen. Stat. sec. 46a–60(b)(7)(A)–(K) ......................
Del. Code Ann. tit. 19, sec. 711(a)(3)(b)–(f) .....................
DC Code sec. 32–1231.02 ................................................
Haw. Code R. sec. 12–46–107. ........................................
775 Ill. Comp. Stat. 5/2–102(I)–(J) ....................................
Ky. Rev. Stat. sec. 344.040 ..............................................
La. Rev. Stat. sec. 23:341–342 .........................................
Me. Rev. Stat. tit. 5, sec. 4572–A .....................................
Md. Code, State Gov’t sec. 20–609 ..................................
Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 151B, sec. 4(1E)(a) ........................
Minn. Stat. sec. 181.939 ...................................................
Neb. Rev. Stat. sec. 48–1102(11), 1102(18) ....................
Nev. Rev. Stat. sec. 613.438 ............................................
N.J. Stat. Ann. sec. 10:5–3.1 ............................................
N.M. Code R. sec. 9.1.1.7(HH)(2) .....................................
N.Y. Exec. Law sec. 292(21–e) and (21–f), 296(3) ..........

employees (25 or more employees in Louisiana; 21
or more employees in Minnesota). As explained
below, the analysis takes these differences into
account.
266 U.S. Dep’t of Lab., FLSA Protections to Pump
at Work, https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/pumpat-work (last visited Apr. 2, 2023).
267 Federal Employee Paid Leave Act, Public Law
116–92 (2019).
268 The Number of Firms and Establishments,
Employment, and Annual Payroll by State,
Industry, and Enterprise Employment Size: 2020,
Stats. of U.S. Bus. Ann. Datasets by Establishment
Indus. (2020),https://www2.census.gov/programssurveys/susb/tables/2020/
us_state_naics_detailedsizes_2020.xlsx [hereinafter
Firms and Establishments Data by State].
Percentages in the Table reflect filtering by
employer size and summing by state.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

Threshold 270

Statute

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Frm 00043

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Employment

10.6%
1.9%
1.2%
0.4%
0.4%
0.4%
3.9%
1.4%
1.3%
0.5%
1.9%
2.3%
1.7%
0.7%
0.9%
2.6%
0.6%
5.2%

11.6%
1.8%
1.2%
0.3%
0.4%
0.4%
4.2%
1.3%
1.2%
0.4%
1.8%
2.6%
2.0%
0.6%
1.0%
2.8%
0.5%
6.3%

5 ...........................
5 ...........................
3 ...........................
4 ...........................
1 ...........................
1 ...........................
1 ...........................
15 .........................
25 .........................
1 ...........................
15 .........................
6 ...........................
21 .........................
15 .........................
15 .........................
1 ...........................
4 ...........................
4 ...........................

269 This number is limited to enterprises with at
least 15 employees.
270 This denotes the minimum number of
employees that an employer must have to be
covered by the State law.
271 These numbers only account for enterprises
with at least 25 employees because Louisiana’s
pregnancy accommodations law applies to
employers with 25 or more employees. See La. Rev.
Stat. Ann. sec. 23:341 (2021).
272 These numbers only account for enterprises
with at least 25 employees because Minnesota’s
pregnancy accommodation law applies to
employers with 21 or more employees. Minn. Stat.
sec. 181.940, 181.9414, 181.9436 (2014). Data on
enterprises with 21 to 24 employees are not
available.
273 Pennsylvania does not have a state-wide
pregnancy accommodation law, but Philadelphia
does. See Phila. Code sec. 9–1128 (2014).

PO 00000

Establishments

Philadelphia accounts for approximately 9 percent
of Pennsylvania establishments and approximately
12 percent of individuals employed in
Pennsylvania. See The Number of Firms and
Establishments, Employment, and Annual Payroll
by Congressional District, Industry, and Enterprise
Employment Size: 2019, Statistics of U.S. Bus. Ann.
Datasets by Establishment Indus. (2019), https://
www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/susb/tables/
2019/cd_naicssector_2019.xlsx [hereinafter Firms
and Establishments Data by Congressional District].
The calculation is based on the total number of
establishments and total employment in
Pennsylvania and in Philadelphia County and the
shares of employment in each.
274 This total does not include Alaska, North
Carolina, and Texas, where the pregnancy
accommodation laws only apply to certain public
employees.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54756

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

TABLE 1—SHARE OF EMPLOYERS WITH 15 OR MORE EMPLOYEES IN STATES ALREADY SUBJECT TO LOCAL PREGNANCY
ACCOMMODATION LAWS SIMILAR TO THE PWFA 268—Continued
Share in U.S. Total 269
State

Threshold 270

Statute

Establishments

Employment

North Dakota .......................
Oregon .................................
Pennsylvania 273 ..................
Rhode Island .......................
South Carolina .....................
Tennessee ...........................
Utah .....................................
Vermont ...............................
Virginia .................................
Washington ..........................
West Virginia .......................

N.D. Cent. Code Ann. sec. 14–02.4–03 ...........................
Or. Rev. Stat. sec. 659A.029 ............................................
Phila. Code sec. 9–1128 ...................................................
R.I. Gen. Laws sec. 28–5–7.4(a)(1)–(3) ...........................
S.C. Code Ann. sec. 1–13–80(A)(4) .................................
Tenn. Code. Ann. sec. 50–10–103 ...................................
Utah Code sec. 34A–5–106(1)(g) .....................................
Vt. Stat. Ann. tit. 21, sec. 495k(a)(1) ................................
Va. Code sec. 2.2–3901 ...................................................
Wash. Rev. Code sec. 43.10.005(2) .................................
W. Va. Code sec. 5–11B–2 ...............................................

1 ...........................
6 ...........................
1 (Philadelphia) ...
4 ...........................
15 .........................
15 .........................
15 .........................
1 ...........................
5 ...........................
15 .........................
12 .........................

0.3%
1.4%
0.4%
0.3%
1.6%
2.2%
0.9%
0.2%
2.8%
2.3%
0.6%

0.3%
1.2%
0.5%
0.3%
1.5%
2.1%
1.1%
0.2%
2.6%
2.2%
0.4%

Total 274 ........................

............................................................................................

..............................

51%

52%

Total (in millions) ...

............................................................................................

..............................

1.4

61.2

TABLE 2—SHARE OF TOTAL U.S. EMPLOYER ESTABLISHMENTS WITH 15 OR MORE EMPLOYEES IN STATES THAT WILL BE
IMPACTED BY PWFA 275
Share in U.S. Total 276

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

State

Establishments

Employment

Alabama ...................................................................................................................................................................
Alaska 277 .................................................................................................................................................................
Arizona .....................................................................................................................................................................
Arkansas ..................................................................................................................................................................
Florida ......................................................................................................................................................................
Georgia ....................................................................................................................................................................
Idaho ........................................................................................................................................................................
Indiana .....................................................................................................................................................................
Iowa .........................................................................................................................................................................
Kansas .....................................................................................................................................................................
Louisiana 278 ............................................................................................................................................................
Michigan ...................................................................................................................................................................
Minnesota 279 ...........................................................................................................................................................
Mississippi ................................................................................................................................................................
Missouri ....................................................................................................................................................................
Montana ...................................................................................................................................................................
New Hampshire .......................................................................................................................................................
North Carolina 280 ....................................................................................................................................................
Ohio .........................................................................................................................................................................
Oklahoma .................................................................................................................................................................
Pennsylvania 281 ......................................................................................................................................................
South Dakota ...........................................................................................................................................................
Texas 282 ..................................................................................................................................................................
Wisconsin .................................................................................................................................................................
Wyoming ..................................................................................................................................................................

1.5%
0.2%
2.0%
0.9%
6.0%
3.1%
0.6%
2.2%
1.1%
1.0%
0.2%
2.9%
0.3%
0.9%
2.1%
0.4%
0.5%
3.2%
3.8%
1.2%
3.8%
0.3%
8.5%
2.0%
0.2%

1.3%
0.2%
2.0%
0.8%
6.8%
3.1%
0.4%
2.1%
1.0%
0.9%
0.1%
3.0%
0.1%
0.7%
1.9%
0.2%
0.5%
3.0%
3.8%
1.0%
3.7%
0.3%
8.5%
2.0%
0.1%

Total ..................................................................................................................................................................

49%

48%

Total (in millions) .......................................................................................................................................

1.3

55.5

275 Firms and Establishments Data, supra note
268. Percentages in the Table reflect filtering by size
and summing by state.
276 This number is limited to enterprises with at
least 15 employees.
277 Alaska’s statute, codified at Alaska Stat. sec.
39.20.520 (1992), covers public employers only.
278 These numbers only include enterprises with
15–24 employees because Louisiana’s pregnancy
accommodations law applies to employers with 25
or more employees. La. Rev. Stat. Ann. sec. 23:341
(2021).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

279 These numbers only include enterprises with
15–24 employees because Minnesota’s pregnancy
accommodation law applies to employers with 21
or more employees. Minn. Stat. sec. 181.940,
181.9414, 181.9436 (2014). Data on enterprises with
15–20 employees are not available.
280 N.C. E.O. No. 82 (2018) covers public
employers only.
281 Pennsylvania does not have a state-wide
pregnancy accommodation law, but Philadelphia
does. See Phila. Code sec. 9–1128 (2014).
Philadelphia accounts for approximately 9 percent

PO 00000

Frm 00044

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

of Pennsylvania establishments and approximately
12 percent of individuals employed in
Pennsylvania. See Firms and Establishments Data
by Congressional District, supra note 273 . The
calculation is based on the total number of
establishments and total employment in
Pennsylvania and in Philadelphia County and the
shares of employment in each.
282 The Texas statute, codified at Tex. Loc. Gov’t
Code sec.180.004 (2001), covers local public
employers only.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54757

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
Similarly, approximately 11.5 million
State and local government employees
are covered by laws that are
substantially similar to the PWFA.283
Subtracting this number from the total
number of covered State and local
government employees (18.8 million)
yields a total of 7.3 million State and
local government employees who will
be covered by the proposed rule and
underlying statute, and who are not
already covered by State or local laws
substantially similar to the PWFA.
Finally, there are 2.3 million Federal
workers. The Federal Government does

not currently require accommodations
for pregnant workers; thus, the PWFA
provides a new right for these workers.
Again, however, not all employees
who are now covered by the PWFA will
seek and be entitled to accommodations
as a result of the proposed rule and
underlying statute; only a small
percentage will become pregnant and
need accommodations in a given year.
In 2021, women of reproductive age
(aged 16–50 years) comprised
approximately 33 percent of U.S.
workers.284 Of these, approximately 4.7
percent gave birth to at least one child

the previous year.285 Applying these
percentages 286 to the numbers above
yields totals (rounded to the nearest
10,000) of, in a given year, 850,000
private sector employees (55,500,000 ×
0.33 × 0.047), 110,000 State and local
government employees (7,300,000 ×
0.33 × 0.047), and 40,000 Federal
employees (2,310,000 × 0.33 × 0.047)
who are both newly eligible for
reasonable accommodations under the
proposed rule and underlying statute,
and who may be expected to become
pregnant in a given year. Tables 3, 4,
and 5 display these calculations.

TABLE 3—COMPUTATION OF EXPECTED NUMBER OF PREGNANT WOMEN ELIGIBLE FOR PWFA ACCOMMODATIONS AT
PRIVATE EMPLOYERS 287
Total employment in establishments covered under PWFA (i.e., those with at least 15 employees) ......................................
Total employment in establishments covered under PWFA, with existing PWFA-type accommodations under State/local
laws (from Table 1).
Total employment in establishments covered under PWFA, without existing PWFA-type accommodations under State/local
laws (from Table 2).
Share of 16–50 years old women .......................................................................................................................................
Total number of women employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA (33% of 55.5 million) ..........................
Expected share of women employees to be pregnant in a year ........................................................................................
Expected number of pregnant employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA (4.7% of 18.1 million) ...............

117 million.
61.2 million.
55.5 million.
33%.
18.1 million.
4.7%.
850,000.

TABLE 4—COMPUTATION OF EXPECTED NUMBER OF PREGNANT WOMEN ELIGIBLE FOR PWFA ACCOMMODATIONS IN
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT 288
Total State and local government employment ..........................................................................................................................
Total State and local government employment in States with existing PWFA-type accommodations under State/local
laws 289.
Total State and local government employment in States without existing PWFA-type accommodations under State/local
laws 290.
Share of 16–50 years old women .......................................................................................................................................

18.8 million.
11.5 million.
7.3 million.
33%.

Total number of State and local government women employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA (33% of
7.3 million).
Expected share of women employees to be pregnant in a year ........................................................................................

2.4 million.

Expected number of pregnant State and local government employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA
(4.7% of 2.4 million).

110,000.

4.7%.

TABLE 5—COMPUTATION OF EXPECTED NUMBER OF PREGNANT WOMEN ELIGIBLE FOR PWFA ACCOMMODATIONS IN
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT
Total Federal Government civilian employment 291 ....................................................................................................................

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Share of 16–50 years old women .......................................................................................................................................

283 U.S. Census Bureau, 2021 ASPEP Datasets &
Tables (2021), https://www.census.gov/data/
datasets/2021/econ/apes/annual-apes.html
[hereinafter ASPEP Datasets]. The calculation is
based on data from the ‘‘State Government
Employment & Payroll Data’’ and the ‘‘Local
Government Employment & Payroll’’ files,
‘‘Government Function’’ column.
284 See IPUMS Data, supra note 23. Data are
available by request to registered IPUMS–USA
users; please contact ipums@umn.edu.
285 Id.
286 Id.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

287 Id.
288 ASPEP Datasets, supra note 283. The

calculation is based on data as described in note 61.
289 This number includes 12 percent of State and
local government employment in Pennsylvania to
account for Philadelphia’s PWFA-type law,
excludes local government employment in North
Carolina because the existing law only applies to
State employees, and excludes State government
employment in Texas because the existing law only
applies to local governments.
290 This number includes State and local
government employment in Pennsylvania not

PO 00000

Frm 00045

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

2.31 million.
33%.

accounted for by Philadelphia, includes local
government employment in North Carolina because
the existing law only applies to State employees,
and includes State government employment in
Texas because the existing law only applies to local
governments.
291 Full-Time and Part-Time Employees by
Industry, U.S. Bureau of Econ. Analysis, https://
apps.bea.gov/iTable/?reqid=19&step=2&isuri=
1&1921=survey#eyJhcHBpZCI6MTksInN0ZXBzI
jpbMSwyLDNdLCJkYXRhIjpbWyJDYXRlZ29yaWVz
IiwiU3VydmV5Il0sWyJOSVBBX1RhYmxlX0xpc3
QiLCIxOTMiXV19 (last visited June 12, 2023).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54758

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

TABLE 5—COMPUTATION OF EXPECTED NUMBER OF PREGNANT WOMEN ELIGIBLE FOR PWFA ACCOMMODATIONS IN
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT—Continued
Total number of women Federal Government employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA ..........................
Expected share of women employees to be pregnant in a year ........................................................................................
Expected number of pregnant Federal Government employees newly eligible for accommodations under PWFA .................

The sum of the expected number of
pregnant women eligible for PWFA
accommodations in the private sector
(850,000), State and local government
(110,000), and Federal Government
(40,000) is 1,000,000.
Further, not all individuals who
become pregnant will need a reasonable
accommodation. Because there is very
little research on the proportion of
pregnant workers who need workplace
accommodations, the Commission has
generated a ranged estimate. The
Commission seeks comment regarding
any existing data quantifying the
proportion of pregnant workers who
need workplace accommodations.
Survey research has shown that 71
percent of pregnant workers experience
some type of pregnancy-related
limitation that might require an
accommodation.292 The Commission
thus adopts 71 percent as its upperbound estimate of the percentage of
pregnant workers needing

accommodation. Applying this
percentage yields upper-bound
estimates of 600,000 private sector
employees (71 percent of 850,000),
80,000 State and local government
employees (71 percent of 110,000), and
30,000 Federal sector employees (71
percent of 40,000), in total 710,000, who
will need, and be newly entitled to,
reasonable accommodations under the
proposed rule and underlying statute in
a given year.
Based on this research,293 the
Commission has calculated that
approximately 23 percent of pregnant
workers have faced a pregnancy-related
limitation but did not receive a
workplace accommodation, either
because they did not ask for one or
because the employer did not address
the need when the issue was raised. The
Commission utilized the survey
research to calculate the number of
workers who needed a particular
accommodation (for example, 71

0.8 million.
4.7%.
40,000.

percent of 598 respondents, or 425
respondents, needed more frequent
breaks); the number of workers who
asked employers to address the need (58
percent of 425 respondents, or 246
respondents); and the number of those
workers whose employers did not
attempt to address the need (5 percent
of 246 respondents, or 12 respondents).
Additionally, the Commission
calculated the number of workers who
needed an accommodation but did not
ask their employers to address the need
(42 percent of 425 respondents, or 179
respondents) and used these two
numbers to identify the percentage of
workers who faced a limitation and did
not previously receive an
accommodation but will have a right to
an accommodation under the PWFA
(12+179/598=32 percent). The
Commission calculated this percentage
for the four accommodations identified
in the survey data and determined an
average of those four percentages.

TABLE 6—SHARE OF PREGNANT WOMEN CURRENTLY WITHOUT PREGNANCY-RELATED EMPLOYER SUPPORT 294

Employer support during pregnancy

% Faced with
pregnancy-related
limitation with paid
job 295

Of those who
faced a limitation,
% that
didn’t ask employer to address
need 296

Of those who faced
a limitation, % that
asked the employer
to address need
but whose
employer didn’t attempt to address
concern

% Of pregnant
women who faced
a limitation, didn’t
receive
an accommodation
previously, but will
have a right to it
under PWFA

71

42

3

32

61
53

26
37

7
6

20
23

40

38

8

18

..............................

..............................

................................

23

To take more frequent breaks, such as extra bathroom
breaks ...............................................................................
A change in schedule or more time off, for example, to
see prenatal care providers .............................................
A change in duties, such as less lifting or more sitting ......
Some other type of workplace adjustment due to a pregnancy-related condition ....................................................

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Average ........................................................................

Accordingly, these data suggest that
the proposed rule and underlying
statute will result in a new obligation on
employers in only 23 percent of
instances in which a worker requires
reasonable accommodations related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. The Commission
thus adopts 23 percent as its lowerbound estimate of the percentage of

pregnant workers who will need, and be
newly entitled to, a reasonable
accommodation under the proposed
rule and underlying statute. Applying
this percentage yields lower-bound
estimates of approximately 200,000
private sector employees (23 percent of
850,000), 30,000 State and local
government employees (23 percent of
110,000), and 10,000 Federal sector

292 Listening to Mothers III, supra note 34.

294 Id.

293 See id. at 36; see also infra Table 6.

295 Id.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

PO 00000

Frm 00046

employees (23 percent of 40,000), in
total 240,000, who will need, and be
newly entitled to, reasonable
accommodations under the proposed
rule and underlying statute in a given
year.
3. Cost of Accommodation
Accommodations that allow pregnant
workers to continue to perform their job
296 Id.

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54759

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
duties, thereby allowing them to receive
continued pay and benefits, include
permission to take additional rest or
bathroom breaks, to use a stool or chair,
to change duties in order to avoid
strenuous physical activities, and to
change schedules to attend prenatal
appointments.297 Some of these
accommodations, especially additional
rest or bathroom breaks and provision of
a stool or chair, are expected to impose
minimal or no additional costs on the
employer. Certain other types of
accommodations, such as allowing the
employee to avoid heavy lifting or
exposure to certain types of chemicals,
may be easy to provide in some jobs but
more difficult to provide in others,
necessitating temporary restructuring of
responsibilities or transfer to a different
position.
The Commission was unable to find
any data on the average cost of
reasonable accommodations related
specifically to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. The
Commission has therefore relied on the
available data on the cost of
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities for purposes of this analysis.
A survey conducted by the Job
Accommodation Network (JAN)
indicates that most workplace
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities are low-cost.298 Of the
employers participating in this survey
between 2019 and 2022, 49.4 percent

reported that they provided an
accommodation needed because of a
disability that did not cost anything to
implement. The Commission believes
that the percentage of no-cost
accommodation is likely to be higher for
accommodations related specifically to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, because many will
be simple and no-cost like access to
water, stools, or more frequent bathroom
breaks, and because the vast majority
will be temporary. Nevertheless,
because the Commission is unable to
locate any data on the percentage of
accommodations needed because of
pregnancy-related conditions that have
no cost, the Commission conservatively
assumes for purposes of this analysis
that the percentages are the same.
The same research showed that
another 43.3 percent of employers
provided an accommodation that
involved a one-time cost; the median
one-time cost of providing such an
accommodation was $300. Only 7.2
percent of employers reported that they
provided an accommodation that
resulted in ongoing annual costs.
Because pregnancy is a temporary
condition, the ongoing costs incurred by
7.2 percent of employers is unlikely to
be applicable to pregnancy-related
accommodations, and the Commission
adopts $300 as the median one-time cost
for employers that incurred a cost (50.6
percent of employers). Again, although

the Commission believes that the
average cost is likely lower for
accommodations needed specifically for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, it will use the data
for the purposes of this analysis.
Because non-zero cost
accommodations generally involve
durable goods such as additional stools,
infrastructure for telework, and
machines to help with lifting, and
because these goods generally have a
useful life of five years, the Commission
will assume that the annual cost of
providing these accommodations is
approximately $60 per year per
accommodation.299 The Commission
seeks comment on whether the annual
cost of providing non-zero cost
accommodations should be calculated
based on durable goods with a useful
life of five years.
Using these cost estimates, and
applying them to the upper- and lowerbound estimates for the number of
additional accommodations that will
likely be required by the rule and
underlying statute, the estimated annual
costs for private employers is between
$6 million and $18 million; the
estimated annual costs for State and
local governments is between $0.8
million and $2.4 million, and the
estimated annual costs for the Federal
Government is between $0.3 million
and $0.8 million. See Tables 7, 8, and
9.

TABLE 7—ESTIMATED REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION COSTS TO PRIVATE EMPLOYERS WITH MORE THAN 15 EMPLOYEES
Cost of accommodation

Lower bound
(23%)

Number of women needing accommodation ................................................................................
Number of non-zero cost accommodations (50.6%) ....................................................................
Annual cost of accommodation ....................................................................................................

200,000 .......................
100,000 .......................
$6 million .....................

Upper bound
(71%)
600,000.
300,000.
$18 million.

TABLE 8—ESTIMATED REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION COSTS TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYERS
Cost of accommodation

Lower Bound
(23%)

Number of women needing accommodation ................................................................................
Number of non-zero cost accommodations (50.6%) ....................................................................
Annual cost of accommodation ....................................................................................................

30,000 .........................
11,000 .........................
800,000 .......................

Upper Bound
(71%)
80,000.
40,000.
$2.4 million.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

TABLE 9—ESTIMATED REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION COSTS TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Cost of accommodation

Lower Bound
(23%)

Number of women needing accommodation ......................................................................
Number of non-zero cost accommodations (50.6%) ..........................................................
Annual cost of accommodation ..........................................................................................

10,000 .......................
0.004 million .............
$300,000 ...................

297 Id.; see also Long Over Due, supra note 2, at
79 (statement of Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & CoPresident, A Better Balance) (describing potential
accommodations).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

298 Costs and Benefits of Accommodation, supra
note 33.

PO 00000

Frm 00047

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Upper Bound
(71%)
30,000.
13,000.
$800,000.

299 The Commission made a similar assumption
of a five-year life for accommodations in its cost
analysis of the amendments to the ADA. 76 FR
16977, 16994 (March 25, 2011).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54760

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

Thus, the overall economic impact on
the U.S. economy of the proposed rule
and underlying statute is estimated to be
between $7.1 million and $21.2 million
annually.
The costs in Tables 7, 8, and 9 likely
overestimate the costs to covered
entities in at least six respects:
• The estimates are based on costs of
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities generally, not only those
related to pregnancy, among the JAN
survey respondents. The Commission
believes that the average cost of
accommodations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
is less than the average cost of
disability-related accommodations
because many of the reasonable
accommodations requested under the
PWFA will be simple and inexpensive
to provide, and the vast majority will be
temporary. The Commission seeks
comment regarding any existing data
quantifying the average cost of
accommodations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
• The sample obtained in the JAN
study may not be representative of all
employers, because employers who
consult with JAN are likely to be facing
more difficult and costly
accommodation issues than employers
overall.300
• The estimate did not account for the
fact that some workers who will be
entitled to reasonable accommodations
under the PWFA and the proposed rule
are independently entitled to
accommodations under the ADA or
Title VII, to break time and a private
place to pump at work under the PUMP
Act, and, in some cases, leave under the
FMLA or the Federal Employees Paid
Leave Act.301
• The estimate does not account for
the fact that some employers voluntarily
provide accommodations to workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

300 The Job Accommodation Network (JAN)
provides free assistance regarding workplace
accommodation issues. See generally Job
Accommodation Network, https://askjan.org/ (last
visited Apr. 2, 2023).
301 Brown et al., supra note 14, at 6 (finding that
about 56 percent of U.S. employees were eligible for
FMLA in 2018, and 25 percent of the FMLA leaves
taken in the prior 12 months accounted for the
arrival of a new child).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

related medical conditions and may not
incur new costs.
• The Commission did not offset the
costs associated with providing
accommodations with the potential
costs associated with not providing
them. In some instances where an
individual is denied an accommodation,
the individual separates from the
employer because they quit, or they are
forced to leave. In these instances, the
employer must replace the employee.
Replacement costs for an employee vary
based on salary; estimates range from
$2,000–$7,000,302 with $4,000 being a
common average.303 Thus, in these
situations, the accommodations will
save the employer more than the
accommodation will cost.
• This analysis does not account for
the fact that not all workers who seek
accommodations will meet the
definition of ‘‘qualified,’’ and an
employer may decline to provide a
reasonable accommodation if doing so
creates an undue hardship.
The Commission did not include
costs related to processing requests for
accommodation in its estimate because
it expects these costs to be extremely
low. Employers that are covered by
State or local laws substantially similar
to the PWFA already have these
procedures in place. The Commission
assumes that employers not covered by
such State or local laws, and the Federal
Government, will adapt existing
procedures for providing
accommodations under Title VII and the
ADA and for providing leave under the
FMLA.
4. One-Time Administrative Costs for
Covered Entities
Administrative costs, which include
rule familiarization, posting new equal
employment opportunity posters, and
updating EEO policies and handbooks,
represent additional, one-time direct
costs to covered entities.
It is estimated that in States that do
not already have laws substantially
similar to the PWFA, compliance
activities for a covered entity would
302 Arindrajit Dube et al., Employee Replacement
Costs, 2 IRLE, Univ. of Cal. Berkeley, Working
Paper No. 201–10 (2010), https://irle.berkeley.edu/
files/2010/Employee-Replacement-Costs.pdf.
303 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00048

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

take an average of 90 minutes by an
Equal Opportunity Officer who is paid
a fully loaded wage of $113.51 per
hour 304 ($68.57 for a State or local
government worker).305 In States with
already existing laws similar to the
PWFA, an Equal Opportunity Officer
will take an average of 30 minutes for
compliance activities. For the Federal
Government, which does not have an
existing PWFA, it is estimated that
compliance activities would take an
average of ninety minutes by an Equal
Opportunity Officer at a GS 14–5
salary.306 These calculations are
displayed in Table 10. The Commission
seeks comment on whether 90 minutes
accurately captures the amount of time
compliance activities will take for a
covered entity in States that do not
already have laws substantially similar
to the PWFA and for the Federal
Government, and whether 30 minutes
accurately captures the amount of time
compliance activities will take for a
covered entity in States that have
existing laws similar to the PWFA.
304 The Commission anticipates that the bulk of
the workload under this proposed rule would be
performed by employees in occupations similar to
those associated with the Standard Occupational
Classification (SOC) code of SOC 11–3121 (Human
Resources Managers). According to the U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics, the mean hourly wage rate for
Human Resources Managers in May 2022 was
$70.07. See U.S. Bureau of Lab. Stats., Employment
of Human Resources Managers, by State, May 2022
(2022), https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/
oes113121.htm#st). For this analysis, the
Commission used a fringe benefits rate of 45
percent and an overhead rate of 17 percent,
resulting in a fully loaded hourly compensation rate
for Human Resources Managers of $113.51 ($70.07
+ ($70.07 × 0.45) + ($70.07 × 0.17)).
305 U.S. Bureau of Lab. Stats., Employer Costs for
Employee Compensation for State and Local
Government Workers by Occupational and Industry
Group (Mar. 17, 2023), https://www.bls.gov/
news.release/ecec.t03.htm. Total employer
compensation costs for State and local government
averaged $57.60 per hour worked (see row 1,
column 1 of the cited table). Average wages and
salaries ranged from $68.57 in management,
professional, and related occupations (row 3) to
$40.05 (row 7) in sales and office occupation. This
analysis uses the high estimate of $68.57 per hour
worked, which includes average wage and salary
cost of $43.87 per hour (row 3, column 3) and
average benefit costs of $24.70 per hour (row 3,
column 5).
306 In 2023, a GS–14, Step 5 salary is $63.21 per
hour. See Office of Pers. Mgmt., Salary Table 2023–
RUS (Jan. 2023), https://www.opm.gov/policy-dataoversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/salary-tables/
pdf/2023/RUS_h.pdf.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54761

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
TABLE 10—ONE-TIME ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
Number of
establishments

Time for rule
familiarization

Equal
opportunity
officer fully
loaded wage

Rule familiarization cost

(a)

(b)

(c)

(a) × (b) × (c)

Private employers in States with existing
PWFA-type laws.
Private employers in States without existing
PWFA-type laws.
Public employers in States with existing PWFAlaws.
Public employers in States without existing
PWFA-type laws.
Federal Government ...........................................

1.4 million .....................

0.5 hours ......................

$113.51

$79 million.

1.3 million .....................

1.5 hours ......................

113.51

221 million.

3,255 307 .......................

0.5 hours ......................

68.57

100,000.

2,533 308 .......................

1.5 hours ......................

68.57

260,000.

209 309 ..........................

1.5 hours ......................

310 93.01

Total .............................................................

.......................................

.......................................

........................

Table 11 provides the analysis of
discount rates at 3% and 7% as required
by OMB Circular A–4 for the lower and

upper bound costs of providing
accommodations. Table 12 provides that

30,000.
$300.39 million.

information for the one-time
administrative costs.

TABLE 11—ANNUALIZED REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION COSTS (IN $ MILLIONS) AT 0% (UNDISCOUNTED), 3%, 7%
DISCOUNT RATES 311
Private—all

Federal
government

State and local
government

Lower Bound
Estimated reasonable accommodation costs ..............................................................................

$30.4

$1.3

$4.0

6.07
6.63
7.40
30.4
33.1
37.0

0.3
0.27
0.31
1.3
1.4
1.5

0.8
0.87
0.97
4.0
4.3
4.8

3.04
3.56
4.32
30.4
35.6
43.2

0.1
0.15
0.18
1.3
1.5
1.8

0.4
0.46
0.56
4.0
4.6
5.6

Assuming useful life of accommodations to be 5 years
Annualized, 0% discount rate, 5 years ........................................................................................
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 5 years ........................................................................................
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 5 years ........................................................................................
Total, 0% discount rate, 5 years .................................................................................................
Total, 3% discount rate, 5 years .................................................................................................
Total, 7% discount rate, 5 years .................................................................................................
Assuming useful life of accommodations to be 10 years
Annualized, 0% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Total, 0% discount rate, 10 years ...............................................................................................
Total, 3% discount rate, 10 years ...............................................................................................
Total, 7% discount rate, 10 years ...............................................................................................

Upper Bound
Estimated reasonable accommodation costs ..............................................................................

91.1

3.8

12.1

18.22
19.89
22.21
91.1
99.4

0.8
0.84
0.94
3.8
4.2

2.4
2.65
2.96
12.1
13.2

Assuming useful life of accommodations to be 5 years

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Annualized, 0% discount rate, 5 years ........................................................................................
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 5 years ........................................................................................
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 5 years ........................................................................................
Total, 0% discount rate, 5 years .................................................................................................
Total, 3% discount rate, 5 years .................................................................................................
307 Based on the distinct number of State and
local government filers of the 2021 EEO–4 survey
where available and the 2021 Annual Survey of
Public Employment & Payroll (ASPEP) when not
available.
308 Id.
309 See U.S. Equal Emp. Opportunity Comm’n,
Department or Agency List with Second Level
Reporting Components, https://www.eeoc.gov/
federal-sector/management-directive/department-

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

or-agency-list-second-level-reporting-components
(last visited Mar. 22, 2023).
310 As described above, a GS–14, Step 5 salary is
$63.21 per hour. See Off. of Pers. Mgmt., Salary
Table 2023–RUS (Jan. 2023), https://www.opm.gov/
policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/
salary-tables/pdf/2023/RUS_h.pdf. This is then
adjusted for average hourly benefits for Federal
workers. See Cong. Budget Off., Comparing the
Compensation of Federal and Private-Sector
Employees, 2011 to 2015, at 14 (Apr. 25, 2017)

PO 00000

Frm 00049

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress2017-2018/reports/52637-federalprivatepay.pdf
(reporting that the average benefits for Federal
employees range from $21.30 per hour to $29.80 per
hour). This analysis uses the high estimate of
$29.80 to compute the total hourly compensation at
$93.01 ($63.21 + $29.80).
311 Off. of Mgmt. and Budget, Circular A–4 (Sept.
17, 2003), https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/
omb/circulars_a004_a-4/ (addressing discount
rates).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54762

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

TABLE 11—ANNUALIZED REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION COSTS (IN $ MILLIONS) AT 0% (UNDISCOUNTED), 3%, 7%
DISCOUNT RATES 311—Continued
Private—all
Total, 7% discount rate, 5 years .................................................................................................

Federal
government

State and local
government

111.1

4.7

14.8

9.11
10.68
12.97
91.1
106.8
129.7

0.38
0.45
0.55
3.8
4.5
5.5

1.21
1.42
1.73
12.1
14.2
17.3

Assuming useful life of accommodations to be 10 years
Annualized, 0% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Total, 0% discount rate, 10 years ...............................................................................................
Total, 3% discount rate, 10 years ...............................................................................................
Total, 7% discount rate, 10 years ...............................................................................................

TABLE 12—ANNUALIZED ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
Estimated administrative costs (in $ millions)
Year
Private—all
1 ...................................................................................................................................................
2 ...................................................................................................................................................
3 ...................................................................................................................................................
4 ...................................................................................................................................................
5 ...................................................................................................................................................
6 ...................................................................................................................................................
7 ...................................................................................................................................................
8 ...................................................................................................................................................
9 ...................................................................................................................................................
10 .................................................................................................................................................
Annualized, 3% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Annualized, 7% discount rate, 10 years ......................................................................................
Total, 3% discount rate, 10 years (in millions) ............................................................................
Total, 7% discount rate, 10 years (in millions) ............................................................................

E. Time Horizon of Analysis
Neither the PWFA nor the proposed
rule contains a sunset provision.
The cost analysis assumes a one-time
administrative cost for employers, and
the amount of time varies depending on
whether the employer is in a State with
or without its own version of the PWFA.
The cost and benefit analysis
calculates the annual cost of
accommodations per pregnant worker
who may need them. Because different
workers enter the labor market every
year and may become pregnant, or a
worker who was pregnant may become
pregnant again, the Commission does
not believe that the need for
accommodations or the costs or benefits
will substantially change over time.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

F. Range of Regulatory Alternatives
The range of alternatives available to
the Commission consistent with the
Executive Order is narrow:
• Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–3(a)
requires the Commission to issue
regulations, the Commission could not
consider non-regulatory alternatives.
• Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg
determine coverage, the Commission

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

could not consider exemptions based on
firm size or geography.
• Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2 of the
PWFA provides how the statute will be
enforced, the Commission could not
consider alternative methods of
enforcement, such as market-oriented
approaches, performance standards,
default rules, monitoring by other
agencies, or reporting.
• Because section 109 of the PWFA
states when the law will go into effect,
the Commission could not consider
alternative compliance dates.312
Further, because the PWFA is a
Federal law that intentionally sets a
national standard, the Commission
could not consider deferring to State or
local regulations. The one exception to
this is that 42 U.S.C 2000gg–5(a)(1)
provides that nothing in the PWFA
invalidates or limits rights under
Federal, State, or local laws that provide
equal or greater protection for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. The proposed rule includes
this language. Thus, the proposed rule
312 Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Public
Law 117–328, Division II, 136 Stat. 4459, 6089
(2022).

PO 00000

Frm 00050

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

$301
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
35.26
42.83
353
428

Federal
government
$0.03
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.003
0.004
0.03
0.04

State and local
government
$0.37
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.04
0.05
0.44
0.53

does not preempt State or local
regulations that provide equal or greater
protection relative to the PWFA.
The Commission considered two
regulatory alternatives, discussed below.
The Commission does not believe that
either alternative would decrease the
costs for covered entities.
1. Definition of ‘‘In the Near Future’’
42 U.S.C 2000gg(6) of the PWFA
defines a ‘‘qualified’’ employee to
include employees whose inability to
perform one or more essential functions
of the job is temporary, who will be able
to perform the essential functions ‘‘in
the near future,’’ and whose inability to
perform essential function(s) can be
reasonably accommodated without
undue hardship.
The proposed rule defines ‘‘in the
near future’’ to mean ‘‘generally within
forty weeks.’’ The Commission
considered, but rejected, shorter periods
such as six months or less 313 for several
313 H.R. Report No. 117–27, pt.1 at 28 (citing
Robert v. Bd. of Cnty. Comm’rs of Brown Cnty., 691
F.3d 1211, 1218 (10th Cir. 2012)). Although it does
not define ‘‘in the near future,’’ Robert cites to Epps
v. City of Pine Lawn, 353 F.3d 588, 593 (8th Cir.
2003), which found that under the ADA, a request
for leave that would last six months was too long

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
reasons. First, pregnancy generally lasts
forty weeks; a rule that a worker is only
‘‘qualified’’ if they are able to perform
all the essential functions of the job
within six months of the function(s)
being temporarily excused as a
reasonable accommodation could
classify many workers who need a
temporary suspension of an essential
function(s) for a longer period as
‘‘unqualified’’ and therefore ineligible
for reasonable accommodations. The
Commission believes that this outcome
would frustrate the purpose of the
statute, which is to enable employees
who need temporary accommodations
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions to continue
working.
Second, defining ‘‘in the near future’’
to mean ‘‘generally forty weeks’’ does
not mean that the employer will be
required to actually provide a
reasonable accommodation for that
length of time. The definition of ‘‘in the
near future’’ is one step in the definition
of qualified; even if an employee can
meet this part of the definition, an
employer still may refuse to provide an
accommodation if the employer cannot
reasonably accommodate the temporary
suspension of the essential function or
if doing so would impose undue
hardship (defined as significant
difficulty or expense, relative to the
employer’s overall resources). It is the
Commission’s hope that setting a single
standard for the meaning of ‘‘in the near
future’’ will benefit both employers and
employees by reducing litigation over
the meaning of the term and placing the
focus on the central issue of whether the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship.
If the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is
‘‘generally forty weeks’’ rather than
‘‘less than six months,’’ more workers
will be able to meet the definition of
qualified. It is not possible to estimate
how many. The Commission anticipates
that there will be little or no additional
cost to covered entities because it is the
act of providing an accommodation—
not classifying an individual as meeting
part of the definition of qualified—that
imposes actual costs on the employer. A
covered entity can still argue that the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship. Further, even if it
provides the accommodation, the
covered entity is likely to experience a
cost saving from not having to recruit,
hire, or train a new worker.
The Commission also considered not
defining the term ‘‘in the near future,’’
but determined that doing so would
to be ‘‘in the near future’’ to qualify as a possible
reasonable accommodation.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

harm employers by increasing
uncertainty and harm employees by
failing to ensure equal treatment.
2. Predictable Assessments
In the section defining ‘‘undue
hardship,’’ the proposed rule lists four
job modifications often sought by
pregnant workers that, in virtually all
cases, will be found to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose
undue hardship: (1) carrying water and
drinking water as needed; (2) allowing
additional restroom breaks; (3) allowing
sitting for those whose work requires
standing and standing for those whose
work requires sitting; and (4) allowing
breaks as needed to eat and drink.
As explained in the preamble, these
accommodations are repeatedly
discussed in the PWFA’s legislative
history as common sense, low-cost
accommodations that most pregnant
workers will need.314 To increase
efficiency and to decrease the time that
it takes for workers to receive these
accommodations, the Commission has
determined that these modifications
will in virtually all cases be determined
to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose an undue hardship.
As an alternative to providing that
these simple, common-sense
modifications will virtually always be
determined to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose
undue hardship, the Commission
considered taking the position that such
modifications would always be
reasonable accommodations and never
impose undue hardship. The
Commission decided against this
approach because some employers may
encounter circumstances that would
lead to a determination that these
modifications are not reasonable
accommodations and/or would impose
an undue hardship.
The Commission also considered the
option of not including information
regarding ‘‘predictable assessments’’ in
the proposed rule. The Commission
determined that providing this
information will be helpful to the public
because doing so explains to covered
entities and employees how the
314 See H.R. Rep.117–27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29, 113;
Fighting for Fairness, supra note 2, at 4 (statement
of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici); Long Over Due, supra
note 2, at 7 (statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 25
(statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice President of
Government Affairs and Public Policy, Greater
Louisville, Inc.); 83 (statement of Rep. Barbara Lee);
168 Cong. Rec. H10,527 (daily ed. Dec. 23, 2022)
(statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 168 Cong. Rec.
S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen.
Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S7,079 (daily
ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey,
Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. H2,324 (daily ed. May 14, 2021)
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici).

PO 00000

Frm 00051

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54763

Commission intends to enforce the
PWFA, potentially increases voluntary
compliance, and increases certainty for
covered entities, which will decrease
costs.
The Commission does not anticipate
that the proposed rule’s ‘‘predictable
assessments’’ section would increase
costs for covered entities. The examples
given are low- to no-cost
accommodations, and under the
proposed rule, the employer may still
claim that these modifications would
impose an undue hardship.
G. Uncertainty in Benefits, Costs, and
Net Benefits
The Commission has based its
estimates of the costs and benefits of the
proposed rule on the best data available
to it at the current time. Nevertheless,
the Commission recognizes these
estimates are somewhat uncertain in
several respects.
First, the data used to estimate the
cost of providing accommodations as
required by the PWFA come entirely
from research on the cost of
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities; the Commission is not
aware of any data concerning the cost of
accommodations that relate specifically
to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.
Second, the estimated cost for
accommodations is based on the
probable number of pregnant workers in
the workplace. Due to lack of available
data, the estimates do not attempt to
account specifically for the cost of
accommodations related to childbirth
(such as leave for recovery) or related
medical conditions. The Commission
nevertheless believes the cost of these
accommodations will not significantly
change its estimates. For example, leave
needed for recovery from childbirth is
likely to be for a relatively short period
of time—usually 6 to 10 weeks—and the
PFWA does not require such leave to be
paid. Further, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, 88 percent of
workers have access to unpaid family
leave independent of the PFWA, either
through the FMLA or otherwise.315 With
respect to these individuals, any costs
attributable specifically to the PFWA for
leave related to childbirth would be
limited to the short period of time
during which such leave is required, but
unavailable from those other sources.
H. Conclusion
As detailed above, the estimated
annual cost of providing
315 U.S. Bureau of Lab. Stats., Access to Paid and
Unpaid Family Leave in 2018 (Feb. 27, 2019),
https://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2019/access-to-paidand-unpaid-family-leave-in-2018.htm.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54764

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

accommodations required by the
proposed rule and underlying statute—
but not independently required by a
State or local law substantially similar
to the PWFA—is estimated to be up to
$18 million for private employers, $2.4
million for State and local governments,
and $800,000 for the Federal
Government. In addition, employers are
expected to face one-time costs
associated with complying with the rule
and underlying statute. These are
estimated to be $300 million for private
employers, $360,000 million for State
and local governments, and $30,000 for
the Federal Government.
These figures are almost certainly
overestimates of the costs imposed by
the rule, in part because some of the
accommodations required by the
proposed rule and underlying statute
are already required under the ADA and
Title VII and some employers
voluntarily provide accommodations.
Due to a lack of data, however, the
Commission was unable to account for
this overlap in the above analysis.
The Commission has nevertheless
determined that the benefits of the
proposed rule and underlying statute
justify its costs.316 The annual costs
associated with the main requirement of
the rule—to give reasonable
accommodations to individuals who
need them because of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions—are not ‘‘economically
significant’’ under E.O. 12866. And
although the aggregate one-time
compliance costs are in excess of $200
million, and therefore ‘‘economically
significant,’’ the estimated cost on a perestablishment basis is very low—$56.76
and $170.27, depending on whether or
not the State in which the entity is
located has a law substantially similar
to the PWFA.
The benefits of the proposed rule and
underlying statute to workers affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or related

medical conditions, however, are
significant, including improved health,
improved economic security, and
increased equity, human dignity, and
fairness. The number of individuals
who may experience such benefits is
relatively large—the number of workers
who will be newly entitled to
reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy is estimated to be between
240,000 and 710,000 per year. This
number does not include the children,
family members, and members of
society at large who also will potentially
enjoy some of the benefits listed above.
The Commission further concludes
that the proposed rule is tailored to
impose the least burden on society
consistent with achieving the regulatory
objectives, and that the agency has
selected the approach that maximizes
net benefits. The range of alternatives
available to the Commission was
extremely limited. The alternatives that
were consistent with the PWFA’s
statutory language would not, in the
Commission’s opinion, reduce costs on
employers.
The Commission invites members of
the public to comment on any aspect of
this IRIA, and to submit to the
Commission any data that would further
inform the Commission’s analysis.
Regulatory Flexibility Act and
Executive Order 13272 (Proper
Consideration of Small Entities in
Agency Rulemaking)
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA),
5 U.S.C. chapter 6, requires the
Commission to evaluate the economic
impact of this proposed rule on small
entities. The RFA defines small entities
to include small businesses, small
organizations, including not-for-profit
organizations, and small governmental
jurisdictions. The Commission must
determine whether the proposed rule
would impose a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of such
small entities.

When an agency issues a rulemaking
proposal, the RFA requires the agency to
‘‘prepare and make available for public
comment an initial regulatory flexibility
analysis’’ which will ‘‘describe the
impact of the proposed rule on small
entities.’’ 317 Section 605 of the RFA
allows an agency to certify a rule, in lieu
of preparing an analysis, if the proposed
rulemaking is not expected to have a
significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities. For
the reasons outlined below, the Chair of
the Commission hereby certifies that
this rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities.
Small businesses range in size, based
on the industry, between 1–1,500
employees; 318 the PWFA and the
proposed rule apply to all employers in
the United States with at least 15
employees. Thus, for purposes of the
RFA the Commission has determined
that the proposed regulation will have
an impact on a substantial number of
small entities.319
However, the Commission has
determined that the impact on entities
affected by the PWFA and the proposed
rule will not be significant. As detailed
in the IRIA above, the impact on small
entities in States and localities that have
laws substantially similar to the PWFA
will be limited to a one-time
administrative cost of approximately
$56.76.
Small entities that are not already
subject to State or local laws
substantially similar to the PWFA will
face a one-time administrative cost of
approximately $170.27, plus annual
costs associated with providing
reasonable accommodations consistent
with the rule and underlying statute. To
calculate the cost of providing such
accommodations, the Commission has
constructed cost estimates for a range of
small business sizes.

TABLE 13—ANNUAL COSTS FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES BASED ON SIZE

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Number of employees

33% Women
aged 16–50

4.7% Pregnant
in a given year

4.95
16.5
33

0.233
0.7755
1.551

15 .................................................................
50 .................................................................
100 ...............................................................
316 76 FR 3821, supra note 205.

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

PO 00000

Frm 00052

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

50.6% Non-zero
cost
accommodations:
lower bound
estimate—
higher bound
estimate
(rounded up)

Total expected
cost: lower bound
estimate—higher
bound estimate

1
1
1

$60
60
60

0.054–0.165
0.178–0.55
0.357–1.01

318 U.S. Small Bus. Admin., Table of Size
Standards (Mar. 17, 2023), https://www.sba.gov/
document/support-table-size-standards.
319 For example, there are over 1 million
businesses with between 20 and 500 employees.

317 5 U.S.C. 603(a).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

Needing
accommodations:
23%
(lower bound
estimate)—
71% (upper bound
estimate)

U.S. Census Bureau, Small Business Week: April 30May 6, 2023 (April 30, 2023) https://
www.census.gov/newsroom/stories/small-businessweek.html.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

54765

TABLE 13—ANNUAL COSTS FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES BASED ON SIZE—Continued

Number of employees

33% Women
aged 16–50

4.7% Pregnant
in a given year

49.5
66
82.5
165
247.5
330
412.5
495

2.3265
3.102
3.878
7.755
11.633
15.51
19.388
23.265

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

150 ...............................................................
200 ...............................................................
250 ...............................................................
500 ...............................................................
750 ...............................................................
1000 .............................................................
1250 .............................................................
1500 .............................................................

Using the amounts for a small entity
with 500 employees as an example, the
calculation was conducted as follows:
• Based on data outlined in the IRIA
above, the Commission estimates that
approximately 33 percent, or 165, of
these workers are women of
reproductive age (aged 16–50 years),
and that approximately 4.7 percent of
these, or 7.755 workers, will give birth
to at least one child during a given year.
• The Commission again adopts 71
percent as its upper-bound estimate and
23 percent as its lower-bound estimate
of the percentage of pregnant workers
who will need a reasonable
accommodation related to pregnancy.
• Thus, the Commission estimates
that between 1.78 (23 percent of 7.755)
and 5.5 (71 percent of 7.755) employees
of a small entity with 500 employees
will require annually a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA.
• The Commission further assumes,
based on data regarding the average cost
of reasonable accommodations for
individuals with disabilities presented
in the IRIA above, that 50.6 percent of
the required accommodations will have
a non-zero cost.
• This yields lower- and upper-bound
estimates of the number of non-zero cost
accommodations of 0.90 (50.6 percent of
1.78) and 2.79 (50.6 percent of 5.5)
respectively. Rounding up these
numbers, the Commission estimates that
a small entity with 500 employees will
be required to provide between 1 and 3
additional non-zero cost
accommodations per year as a result of
the proposed rule and underlying
statute. Multiplying by an average cost
of $60 per year for each accommodation,
the estimated total cost for
accommodations required under the
PWFA per small entity with 500
employees is between $60 and $180.
To calculate total costs, the cost of
compliance is added together with the
cost of accommodation. For entities that

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Needing
accommodations:
23%
(lower bound
estimate)—
71% (upper bound
estimate)

Frm 00053

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Total expected
cost: lower bound
estimate—higher
bound estimate

1
1–2
1–2
1–3
2–5
2–6
3–7
3–9

60
60–120
60–120
60–180
120–300
120–360
180–420
180–540

0.535–1.652
0.713–2.202
0.892–2.75
1.78–5.5
2.676–8.259
3.567–11.012
4.459–13.765
5.351–16.518

are already subject to laws substantially
similar to the PWFA, compliance costs
are estimated to be $56.75 in the first
year. Since these entities are already
required to provide accommodations
consistent with the PWFA, they will
face no additional costs for
accommodations. The total costs faced
by these entities are thus estimated to be
$56.75.
For entities that are not already
subject to laws substantially similar to
the PWFA, the estimated cost of
compliance is $170.27 during the first
year. Added to this is the annual cost of
providing reasonable accommodations,
estimated to be between $60 (lower
bound estimate, for businesses with 15
employees) and $540 (upper bound
estimate, for businesses with 1,500
employees). This yields a total
estimated cost per small entity not
already subject to a law substantially
similar to the PWFA of between $230.27
and $710.27 in the first year, and
between $60 and $540 annually
thereafter.
This is not likely to represent a
‘‘significant’’ economic impact for many
small entities, if any. Further, the
Commission notes that all businesses in
the United States with 15 or more
employees already must comply with
Title VII and the ADA, both of which
could, in certain circumstances, require
accommodations for workers affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. Further, Title VII,
the ADA, and State laws requiring
accommodations for pregnancy apply to
all industries; given that, the
Commission does not believe that the
PWFA will have a greater effect in any
industry. The Commission seeks
comment regarding its analysis and
conclusion that the regulation will not
have a significant economic impact on
small entities; in particular, the
Commission seeks comment regarding

PO 00000

50.6% Non-zero
cost
accommodations:
lower bound
estimate—
higher bound
estimate
(rounded up)

any existing data quantifying impacts on
small entities.
Accordingly, the Chair of the
Commission hereby certifies that this
rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities. As addressed
above, the Commission invites comment
from members of the public who believe
there will be a significant impact on
small entities.
Paperwork Reduction Act
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
(PRA), 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., requires
the EEOC to consider the impact of
information collection burdens imposed
on the public. The PRA typically
requires an agency to provide notice and
seek public comments on any
‘‘collection of information’’ contained in
a rule.320
The Commission has determined that
there is no new requirement for
information collection associated with
this proposed rule.
Consequently, this proposed rule does
not require review by the Office of
Management and Budget under the
authority of the PRA.
Executive Order 13132 (Federalism)
The EEOC has reviewed this proposed
rule in accordance with Executive Order
13132 regarding federalism and has
determined that it does not have
‘‘federalism implications.’’ 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(2) provides that the PWFA
applies to employers as that term is
defined in Title VII. States and local
governments are subject to Title VII,
including its prohibition on sex
discrimination, which includes
discrimination based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–4 provides
that a State will not be immune under
the 11th Amendment to actions brought
320 See 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B); 5 CFR 1320.8.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54766

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

under the PWFA in a court of competent
jurisdiction and that in any action
against a State for a violation of the
PWFA, remedies, including remedies
both at law and in equity, are available
for such violation to the same extent
that they are available against any other
public or private entity. The proposed
rule does not limit or expand these
statutory definitions. Additionally, the
regulation will not have substantial
direct effects ‘‘on the relationship
between the national government and
the States, or on the distribution of
power and responsibilities among the
various levels of government.’’

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of
1995
Section 202(a) of the Unfunded
Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA)
requires that the Commission determine
whether a regulation proposes a Federal
mandate that may result in the
expenditure by State, local, or tribal
governments, in the aggregate, or by the
private sector, of $100 million or more
in a single year (adjusted annually for
inflation). However, 2 U.S.C. 1503
excludes from UMRA’s ambit any
provision in a proposed or final
regulation that, among other things,
enforces constitutional rights of
individuals or establishes or enforces
any statutory rights that prohibit
discrimination on the basis of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, age,
handicap, or disability; thus, UMRA
does not apply to the PWFA.321

undue hardship, the proposed rule
would have a positive effect on the
economic well-being and security of
families.
Executive Order 13175 (Indian Tribal
Governments)
This rule does not have tribal
implications under Executive Order
13175 that require a tribal summary
impact statement. The rule would not
have substantial direct effects on one or
more Indian tribes, on the relationship
between the Federal Government and
Indian tribes, or on the distribution of
power and responsibilities between the
Federal Government and Indian tribes.
The definition of ‘‘covered entity’’ in the
PWFA follows that of Title VII; Title VII
exempts ‘‘a corporation wholly owned
by an Indian tribe.’’ 322
Executive Order 12988 (Civil Justice
Reform)
This proposed rule was drafted and
reviewed in accordance with Executive
Order 12988 and will not unduly
burden the Federal court system. The
proposed rule was: (1) reviewed to
eliminate drafting errors and
ambiguities; (2) written to minimize
litigation; and (3) written to provide a
clear legal standard for affected conduct
and to promote burden reduction.
For the Commission:
Charlotte A. Burrows,
Chair.

Plain Language
The Commission has attempted to
draft this NPRM in plain language. The
Commission invites comment on any
aspect of this NPRM that does not meet
this standard.

List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 1636

Assessment of Federal Regulations and
Policies on Families
The undersigned hereby certifies that
the proposed rule would not adversely
affect the well-being of families, as
discussed under section 654 of the
Treasury and General Government
Appropriations Act of 1999. To the
contrary, by providing reasonable
accommodation to workers with known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, absent

For the reasons set forth in the
preamble, the EEOC proposes to amend
29 CFR chapter XIV by adding part 1636
to read as follows:

321 H.R. Report No. 117–27, pt.1, at 41 (containing
a report by the Congressional Budget Office stating
that the PWFA was not reviewed ‘‘for
intergovernmental or private-sector mandates’’
because it falls within the exception to the
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act as it ‘‘would
extend protections against discrimination in the
workplace based on sex to employees requesting
reasonable accommodation for pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Administrative practice and
procedure, Equal employment
opportunity, Reasonable
accommodation, Pregnancy.

§ 1636.1

§ 1636.2

PART 1636—PREGNANT WORKERS
FAIRNESS ACT
Sec.
1636.1 Purpose.
1636.2 Definitions—general.
1636.3 Definitions—specific to PWFA.
1636.4 Prohibited practices.
1636.5 Remedies and enforcement.
1636.6 Waiver of State immunity.
1636.7 Relationship to other laws.
1636.8 Severability.
Appendix A to Part 1636—Interpretive
Guidance on the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act.
Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2000gg et seq.
322 42 U.S.C. 2000e(b).

PO 00000

Frm 00054

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Purpose.

(a) The purpose of this part is to
implement the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg et seq.
(b) The PWFA:
(1) Requires a covered entity to
provide a reasonable accommodation for
a known limitation of a qualified
employee or applicant related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions, absent undue
hardship;
(2) Prohibits a covered entity from
requiring a qualified employee or
applicant to accept an accommodation
other than a reasonable accommodation
arrived at through the interactive
process;
(3) Prohibits the denial of
employment opportunities based on the
need of the covered entity to make a
reasonable accommodation for the
known limitation of a qualified
employee or applicant;
(4) Prohibits a covered entity from
requiring a qualified employee to take
leave if another reasonable
accommodation can be provided;
(5) Prohibits a covered entity from
taking adverse actions in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment
against a qualified employee, applicant,
or former employee for requesting or
using a reasonable accommodation for
known limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions;
(6) Prohibits a covered entity from
retaliating against an employee,
applicant, or former employee for
opposing unlawful discrimination
under the PWFA or participating in a
proceeding under the PWFA;
(7) Prohibits a covered entity from
interfering with any individual’s rights
under the PWFA; and
(8) Provides remedies for individuals
whose rights under the PWFA are
violated.
Definitions—general.

(a) Commission means the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
established by section 705 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–4.
(b) Covered entity means Respondent
as defined in section 701(n) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e(n)
and includes:
(1) Employer, which is a person
engaged in an industry affecting
commerce who has 15 or more
employees, as defined in 701(b) of Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42
U.S.C. 2000e(b);
(2) Employing Office, as defined in
section 101 of the Congressional
Accountability Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C.
1301, and 3 U.S.C. 411(c);

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
(3) An entity employing a State
employee or employing an employee of
a State subdivision described in section
304(a) of the Government Employee
Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–
16c(a); and
(4) An entity to which section 717(a)
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16(a) applies.
(c) Employee means:
(1) An employee (including an
applicant) as defined in section 701(f) of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e(f);
(2) A covered employee (including an
applicant) as defined in section 101 of
the Congressional Accountability Act of
1995, 2 U.S.C. 1301, and an individual
described in section 201(d) of that Act,
2 U.S.C. 1311(d);
(3) A covered employee (including an
applicant) as defined in 3 U.S.C. 411(c);
(4) A State employee (including an
applicant) or an employee or applicant
of a State subdivision described in
section 304(a) of the Government
Employee Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16c(a); and
(5) An employee (including an
applicant) to which section 717(a) of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16(a) applies.
(d) Person means ‘‘person’’ as defined
by section 701(a) of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e(a).

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

§ 1636.3
PWFA.

Definitions—specific to the

(a) Known limitation means a physical
or mental condition related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
that the employee or applicant or the
representative of the employee or
applicant has communicated to the
covered entity, whether or not such
condition meets the definition of
disability specified in section 3 of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
42 U.S.C. 12102.
(1) Known in terms of limitation
means the employee or applicant, or a
representative of the employee or
applicant, has communicated the
limitation to the employer.
(2) Limitation means a physical or
mental condition related to, affected by,
or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. ‘‘Physical
or mental condition’’ is an impediment
or problem that may be modest, minor,
and/or episodic. The physical or mental
condition may also be that an employee
or applicant affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
has a need or a problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of
the pregnancy. The definition also
includes when the worker is seeking

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

health care related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical
condition itself. A ‘‘physical or mental
condition’’ does not need to meet the
definition of disability from the
Americans with Disabilities Act (42
U.S.C. 12111 et seq.).
(b) Pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions: ‘‘Pregnancy’’ and
‘‘childbirth’’ include, but are not limited
to, current pregnancy; past pregnancy;
potential or intended pregnancy; labor;
and childbirth (including vaginal and
cesarean delivery). ‘‘Related medical
conditions’’ are medical conditions
which relate to, are affected by, or arise
out of pregnancy or childbirth, as
applied to the specific employee or
applicant in question, including, but not
limited to, termination of pregnancy,
including via miscarriage, stillbirth, or
abortion; infertility; fertility treatment;
ectopic pregnancy; preterm labor; pelvic
prolapse; nerve injuries; cesarean or
perineal wound infection; maternal
cardiometabolic disease; gestational
diabetes; preeclampsia; HELLP
(hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and
low platelets) syndrome; hyperemesis
gravidarum; anemia; endometriosis;
sciatica; lumbar lordosis; carpal tunnel
syndrome; chronic migraines;
dehydration; hemorrhoids; nausea or
vomiting; edema of the legs, ankles, feet,
or fingers; high blood pressure;
infection; antenatal (during pregnancy)
anxiety, depression, or psychosis;
postpartum depression, anxiety, or
psychosis; frequent urination;
incontinence; loss of balance; vision
changes; varicose veins; changes in
hormone levels; vaginal bleeding;
menstrual cycles; use of birth control;
and lactation and conditions related to
lactation, such as low milk supply,
engorgement, plugged ducts, mastitis, or
fungal infections. This list is nonexhaustive, and an employee or
applicant does not have to specify a
condition on this list or use medical
terms to describe a condition in order to
be eligible for a reasonable
accommodation.
(c) Employee representative means a
family member, friend, health care
provider, or other representative of the
employee or applicant.
(d) Communicated to the employer
means an employee or applicant, or a
representative of the employee or
applicant, has made the request for an
accommodation to the covered entity by
communicating with a supervisor,
manager, someone who has supervisory
authority for the employee (or the
equivalent for the applicant), or human
resources personnel, or by following the
steps in the covered entity’s policy to
request an accommodation.

PO 00000

Frm 00055

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54767

(1) The communication may be made
orally, in writing, or by another effective
means.
(2) A covered entity may not require
that the communication be in writing, in
any specific format, or on any particular
form in order to be considered
‘‘communicated to the employer.’’
(3) To request a reasonable
accommodation, the employee or
applicant, or a representative of the
employee or applicant, need only
communicate to the covered entity that
the employee or applicant:
(i) Has a limitation, and
(ii) Needs an adjustment or change at
work.
(e) Consideration of mitigating
measures—
(1) The determination of whether an
employee or applicant has a known
limitation shall be made without regard
to the ameliorative effects of mitigating
measures.
(2) The non-ameliorative effects of
mitigating measures, such as negative
side effects of medication or burdens
associated with following a particular
treatment regimen, may be considered
when determining whether an employee
or applicant has a limitation.
(f) Qualified employee or applicant
with respect to an employee or
applicant with a known limitation
under the PWFA means:
(1) An employee or applicant who,
with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the
essential functions of the employment
position.
(i) With respect to leave as an
accommodation, the relevant inquiry is
whether the employee is reasonably
expected to be able to perform the
essential functions, with or without a
reasonable accommodation, at the end
of the leave, if time off is granted, or if
the employee is qualified as set out in
paragraph (f)(2) of this section after
returning from leave.
(2) Additionally, an employee or
applicant shall be considered qualified
if they cannot perform one or more
essential functions if:
(i) Any inability to perform an
essential function is for a temporary
period, where ‘‘temporary’’ means
lasting for a limited time, not
permanent, and may extend beyond ‘‘in
the near future’’;
(ii) The essential function(s) could be
performed in the near future, where ‘‘in
the near future’’ means the ability to
perform the essential function(s) will
generally resume within forty weeks of
its suspension; and
(iii) The inability to perform the
essential function can be reasonably
accommodated. This may be

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54768

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

accomplished by temporary suspension
of the essential function(s) and the
employee performing the remaining
functions of their position or, depending
on the position, other arrangements,
including, but not limited to: the
employee performing the remaining
functions of their position and other
functions assigned by the covered
entity; the employee performing the
functions of a different job to which the
covered entity temporarily transfers or
assigns the employee; or the employee
being assigned to light duty or modified
duty or participating in the covered
entity’s light or modified duty program.
(g) Essential functions mean the
fundamental job duties of the
employment position the employee or
applicant holds or desires. The term
‘‘essential functions’’ does not include
the marginal functions of the position.
(1) A job function may be considered
essential for any of several reasons,
including but not limited to the
following:
(i) The function may be essential
because the reason the position exists is
to perform that function;
(ii) The function may be essential
because of the limited number of
employees available among whom the
performance of that job function can be
distributed; and/or
(iii) The function may be highly
specialized so that the incumbent in the
position is hired for their expertise or
ability to perform the particular
function.
(2) Evidence of whether a particular
function is essential includes, but is not
limited to:
(i) The employer’s judgment as to
which functions are essential;
(ii) Written job descriptions prepared
before advertising or interviewing
applicants for the job;
(iii) The amount of time spent on the
job performing the function;
(iv) The consequences of not requiring
the incumbent to perform the function;
(v) The terms of a collective
bargaining agreement;
(vi) The work experience of past
incumbents in the job; and/or
(vii) The current work experience of
incumbents in similar jobs.
(h) Reasonable accommodation—
generally. With respect to an employee
or applicant with a known limitation
under the PWFA, reasonable
accommodation includes:
(1) Modifications or adjustments to a
job application process that enable an
applicant with a known limitation
under the PWFA to be considered for
the position such applicant desires; or
(2) Modifications or adjustments to
the work environment, or to the manner

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

or circumstances under which the
position held or desired is customarily
performed, that enable a qualified
employee or applicant with a known
limitation under the PWFA to perform
the essential functions of that position;
or
(3) Modifications or adjustments that
enable a qualified employee or
applicant with a known limitation
under the PWFA to enjoy equal benefits
and privileges of employment; or
(4) Temporary suspension of essential
function(s) and/or modifications or
adjustments that permit the temporary
suspension of essential function(s).
(5) To determine the appropriate
reasonable accommodation, it may be
necessary for the covered entity to
initiate an informal, interactive process
as explained in paragraph (k) of this
section.
(i) Reasonable accommodation—
examples. Reasonable accommodation
may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Making existing facilities used by
employees readily accessible to and
usable by employees and applicants
with known limitations under the
PWFA;
(2) Job restructuring; part-time or
modified work schedules; reassignment
to a vacant position; breaks for use of
the restroom, drinking, eating, and/or
resting; acquisition or modification of
equipment, uniforms, or devices,
including devices that assist with lifting
or carrying for jobs that involve lifting
and/or carrying; modifying the work
environment; providing seating for jobs
that require standing, or standing for
jobs that require sitting; appropriate
adjustment or modifications of
examinations or policies; permitting the
use of paid leave (whether accrued, as
part of a short-term disability program,
or any other employer benefit) or
providing additional unpaid leave for
reasons, including, but not limited to,
recovery from childbirth, miscarriage,
stillbirth, or medical conditions related
to pregnancy or childbirth, to attend
health care appointments or receive
health care treatment related to
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; placement in the
covered entity’s light or modified duty
program or assignment to light duty or
modified work; telework; adjustments to
allow an employee or applicant to work
without increased pain or increased risk
to the employee’s or applicant’s health
or the health of the employee’s or
applicant’s pregnancy due to the
employee’s or applicant’s known
limitation; temporarily suspending one
or more essential functions of the
position; providing reserved parking
spaces if the employee is otherwise

PO 00000

Frm 00056

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

entitled to use employer-provided
parking; and other similar
accommodations for employees or
applicants with known limitations.
(3) The reasonable accommodation of
leave includes, but is not limited to:
(i) The ability to use paid leave
(whether accrued, short-term disability,
or another employer benefit) or receive
unpaid leave, including, but not limited
to, leave during pregnancy; to recover
from childbirth, miscarriage, or
stillbirth; and to attend health care
appointments or receive health care
treatments related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions;
(ii) The ability to use paid leave
(accrued, short-term disability, or
another employer benefit) or unpaid
leave for a known limitation under the
PWFA;
(iii) The ability to choose whether to
use paid leave (accrued, short-term
disability or another employer benefit)
or unpaid leave to the extent that the
covered entity allows employees using
leave not related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to choose between the use of paid leave
(accrued, short-term disability, or
another employer benefit) and unpaid
leave; and
(iv) A covered entity’s concerns about
the length, frequency, or unpredictable
nature of leave requested as a reasonable
accommodation are questions of undue
hardship.
(4) The provision of reasonable
accommodations related to lactation,
including, but not limited to:
(i) Breaks, a space for lactation, and
other related modifications as required
under the PUMP Act (Pub. L. 117–328,
Div. KK, 29 U.S.C. 218d), if not already
provided under the PUMP Act;
(ii) Whether the space for lactation is
provided under the PUMP Act or
paragraph (i)(4)(i) of this section,
accommodations related to pumping,
such as, but not limited to, ensuring that
the area for lactation is in reasonable
proximity to the employee’s usual work
area; that it is regularly cleaned; that it
has electricity, appropriate seating, and
a surface sufficient to place a breast
pump; and that it is in reasonable
proximity to a sink, running water, and
a refrigerator for storing milk.
(5) The temporary suspension of one
or more essential function(s) of the
position in question, as defined in
paragraph (g) of this section, is a
reasonable accommodation if an
applicant or employee with a known
limitation is unable to perform one or
more essential functions with or
without a reasonable accommodation

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
and the conditions in paragraph (f)(2) of
this section are met.
(j) Undue hardship—
(1) In general. Undue hardship means,
with respect to the provision of an
accommodation, significant difficulty or
expense incurred by a covered entity,
when considered in light of the factors
set forth in paragraph (j)(2) of this
section.
(2) Factors to be considered. In
determining whether an accommodation
would impose an undue hardship on a
covered entity, factors to be considered,
with no one factor to be dispositive,
include:
(i) The nature and net cost of the
accommodation needed under the
PWFA;
(ii) The overall financial resources of
the facility or facilities involved in the
provision of the reasonable
accommodation, the number of persons
employed at such facility, and the effect
on expenses and resources;
(iii) The overall financial resources of
the covered entity, the overall size of the
business of the covered entity with
respect to the number of its employees,
and the number, type and location of its
facilities;
(iv) The type of operation or
operations of the covered entity,
including the composition, structure
and functions of the workforce of such
entity, and the geographic separateness
and administrative or fiscal relationship
of the facility or facilities in question to
the covered entity; and
(v) The impact of the accommodation
upon the operation of the facility,
including the impact on the ability of
other employees to perform their duties
and the impact on the facility’s ability
to conduct business.
(3) If an employee or applicant with
a known limitation under the PWFA
meets the definition of ‘‘qualified
employee’’ under paragraph (f)(2) of this
section and needs one or more essential
functions of the relevant position to be
temporarily suspended, the covered
entity must provide the accommodation
unless doing so imposes an undue
hardship when considered in light of
the factors provided in paragraphs
(j)(2)(i) through (v) of this section as
well as the following additional factors
where they are relevant and with no one
factor being dispositive:
(i) The length of time that the
employee or applicant will be unable to
perform the essential function(s);
(ii) Whether, through the factors listed
in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section or
otherwise, there is work for the
employee or applicant to accomplish;
(iii) The nature of the essential
function(s), including its frequency;

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

(iv) Whether the covered entity has
provided other employees or applicants
in similar positions who are unable to
perform the essential function(s) of their
position with temporary suspensions of
essential functions;
(v) If necessary, whether there are
other employees, temporary employees,
or third parties who can perform or be
hired to perform the essential
function(s); and
(vi) Whether the essential function(s)
can be postponed or remain
unperformed for any length of time and,
if so, for how long.
(4) Predictable assessments: Although
a covered entity must assess on a caseby-case basis whether a requested
modification is a reasonable
accommodation that would cause undue
hardship, the individualized assessment
of whether the modifications listed in
paragraphs (j)(4)(i) through (iv) of this
section would cause undue hardship
will, in virtually all cases, result in a
determination that they are reasonable
accommodations that will not impose
an undue hardship under the PWFA
when they are requested as workplace
accommodations by an employee or
applicant who is pregnant. Given the
simple and straightforward nature of
these modifications, they will, as a
factual matter, virtually always be found
to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose significant difficulty or
expense (i.e., undue hardship).
Therefore, with respect to these
modifications, the necessary
individualized assessment should be
particularly simple and straightforward.
It should easily be concluded that the
following modifications will virtually
always be reasonable accommodations
that do not impose an undue hardship:
(i) Allowing an employee or applicant
to carry water and drink as needed
during the workday;
(ii) Allowing an employee or
applicant additional restroom breaks;
(iii) Allowing an employee or
applicant whose work requires standing
to sit and whose work requires sitting to
stand; and
(iv) Allowing an employee or
applicant breaks as needed to eat and
drink.
(5) A covered entity may not establish
that a reasonable accommodation
imposes an undue hardship based on a
mere assumption or speculation that
other employees might seek a
reasonable accommodation, or even the
same reasonable accommodation, in the
future.
(k) Interactive process means an
informal, interactive process between
the covered entity and the employee or
applicant seeking an accommodation

PO 00000

Frm 00057

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54769

under the PWFA. This process should
identify the known limitation and the
change or adjustment at work that is
needed, if either of these are not clear
from the request, and potential
reasonable accommodations. There are
no rigid steps that must be followed.
(l) Supporting documentation. (1) A
covered entity that decides to seek
supporting documentation from a
worker who seeks an accommodation
under the PWFA is limited to requiring
documentation that is reasonable under
the circumstances for the covered entity
to determine whether to grant the
accommodation. The following
situations are examples of when
requiring supporting documentation is
not reasonable under the circumstances:
(i) When the known limitation and
need for reasonable accommodation are
obvious and the employee confirms the
obvious limitation and need for
reasonable accommodation through selfattestation;
(ii) When the employee or applicant
already has provided the covered entity
with sufficient information to
substantiate that the employee or
applicant has a known limitation and
that a change or adjustment at work is
needed;
(iii) When the employee or applicant
is pregnant and the reasonable
accommodation is one of those listed in
paragraphs (j)(4)(i) through (iv) of this
section and the employee has provided
a self-attestation; or
(iv) When the covered entity requires
documentation other than selfattestation from the employee or
applicant regarding lactation or
pumping.
(2) When requiring supporting
documentation is reasonable under the
circumstances, the covered entity is
limited to requiring reasonable
documentation. Reasonable
documentation means documentation
that is sufficient to describe or confirm
the physical or mental condition; that it
is related to, affected by, or arising out
of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions; and that a change or
adjustment at work is needed.
(3) A covered entity may require that
documentation comes from the
appropriate health care provider in a
particular situation, which may include,
but is not limited to, doctors, doulas,
midwives, psychologists, nurses, nurse
practitioners, physical therapists,
lactation consultants, occupational
therapists, vocational rehabilitation
specialists, therapists, and licensed
mental health providers. The covered
entity may not require that the
employee or applicant seeking the
accommodation be examined by a

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54770

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

health care provider selected by the
covered entity.
(4) The rules protecting confidential
medical information in the Americans
with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 12111 et
seq., apply to medical information
received by a covered entity under the
PWFA.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

§ 1636.4

Prohibited practices.

(a) It is an unlawful employment
practice for a covered entity not to make
reasonable accommodations to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions of a qualified
employee or applicant, unless such
covered entity can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an
undue hardship on the operation of the
business of such covered entity.
(1) An unnecessary delay in
responding to a reasonable
accommodation request may result in a
violation of the PWFA, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1), even if the covered entity
eventually provides the reasonable
accommodation. In determining
whether there has been an unnecessary
delay, factors to be considered, with no
one factor to be dispositive, include:
(i) The reason for the delay;
(ii) The length of the delay;
(iii) How much the employee or
applicant and the covered entity each
contributed to the delay;
(iv) Whether the covered entity was
engaged in actions related to the
reasonable accommodation request
during the delay;
(v) Whether the accommodation was
simple or complex to provide. There are
certain accommodations, set forth in
§ 1636.3(j)(4), that are common and easy
to provide. Delay in providing these
accommodations will virtually always
result in a finding of unnecessary delay;
and
(vi) Whether the covered entity
offered the employee or applicant an
interim reasonable accommodation
during the interactive process or while
waiting for the covered entity’s
response. If an interim reasonable
accommodation is offered, delay by the
covered entity is more likely to be
excused. For the purposes of this factor,
leave will not be considered an
appropriate interim reasonable
accommodation if there is another
interim reasonable accommodation that
would not cause an undue hardship for
the covered entity and would allow the
employee or applicant to continue to
work, unless the employee or applicant
selects or requests leave as an interim
accommodation.
(2) An employee or applicant with a
known limitation under the PWFA is

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

not required to accept an
accommodation. However, if such
employee or applicant rejects a
reasonable accommodation that is
necessary to enable the employee or
applicant to perform the essential
functions of the position held or desired
or to apply for the position, and as a
result of that rejection, cannot perform
the essential functions of the position or
cannot apply, the employee or applicant
will not be considered ‘‘qualified.’’ In
this situation, the covered entity also
must consider whether the employee
could be ‘‘qualified’’ under the second
part of the PWFA’s definition, set forth
at § 1636.3(f)(2).
(3) A covered entity cannot justify the
denial or delay of a reasonable
accommodation based on an employee
or applicant failing to provide
supporting documentation, unless
requiring the supporting documentation
is reasonable under the circumstances
for the covered entity to determine
whether to provide the accommodation.
(4) The accommodation should
provide the employee or applicant with
equal employment opportunity to attain
the same level of performance, or to
enjoy the same level of benefits and
privileges as are available to the average
similarly situated employee without a
known limitation. When choosing
between accommodations that do not
cause an undue hardship, the covered
entity must choose an option that
provides the employee or applicant
equal employment opportunity.
(b) It is unlawful for a covered entity
to require a qualified employee or
applicant affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
to accept an accommodation other than
any reasonable accommodation arrived
at through the interactive process
referred to in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) and
described at § 1636.3(k).
(c) It is unlawful for a covered entity
to deny employment opportunities to a
qualified employee or applicant if such
denial is based on the need or potential
need of the covered entity to make
reasonable accommodations to the
known limitations related to the
pregnancy, childbirth or related medical
conditions of the qualified employee or
applicant.
(d) It is unlawful for a covered entity:
(1) To require a qualified employee to
take leave, whether paid or unpaid, if
another reasonable accommodation can
be provided to the known limitations
related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions of the
qualified employee that does not result
in an undue hardship for the covered
entity; but

PO 00000

Frm 00058

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

(2) Nothing in this provision limits
the provision of leave as a reasonable
accommodation if that is the reasonable
accommodation requested or selected by
the employee, or if it is the only
reasonable accommodation that does
not cause an undue hardship.
(e) It is unlawful for a covered entity:
(1) To take adverse action in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment
against a qualified employee, applicant,
or former employee on account of the
employee, applicant, or former
employee requesting or using a
reasonable accommodation to the
known limitations related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
of the employee, applicant, or former
employee.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (e)(1) of this
section limits the rights available under
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) of the PWFA or
§ 1636.5(f).
§ 1636.5

Remedies and enforcement.

(a) Employees covered by Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in sections 705,
706, 707, 709, 710, and 711 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–4
et seq., to the Commission, the Attorney
General, or any person alleging a
violation of Title VII of such Act, 42
U.S.C. 2000e et seq., shall be the
powers, remedies, and procedures this
section provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, or any person,
respectively, alleging an unlawful
employment practice in violation of this
section against an employee described
in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3)(A), except as
provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of
this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures this section provides to the
Commission, the Attorney General, or
any person alleging such practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, or any person alleging
such practice (not an employment
practice specifically excluded from
coverage under section 1977A(a)(1) of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a(a)(1)).
(b) Employees covered by
Congressional Accountability Act of
1995—(1) In general. The powers,

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
remedies, and procedures provided in
the Congressional Accountability Act of
1995, 2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq., for the
purposes of addressing allegations of
violations of section 201(a)(1) of such
Act, 2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(1), shall be the
powers, remedies, and procedures this
section provides to address an allegation
of an unlawful employment practice in
violation of this section against an
employee described in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(3)(B), except as provided in
paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988, for
the purposes of addressing allegations of
such a violation shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to address allegations of such
practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, for purposes of
addressing allegations of such a
violation, shall be the powers, remedies,
and procedures this section provides to
address any allegation of such practice
(not an employment practice
specifically excluded from coverage
under section 1977A(a)(1) of the
Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(c) Employees covered by Chapter 5 of
Title 3, United States Code—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in chapter 5 of title
3, United States Code, to the President,
the Commission, the Merit Systems
Protection Board, or any person alleging
a violation of section 411(a)(1) of such
title shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures this section provides to the
President, the Commission, the Board,
or any person, respectively, alleging an
unlawful employment practice in
violation of this section against an
employee described in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(3)(C), except as provided in
paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures this section provides to the
President, the Commission, the Board,
or any person alleging such practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to the President, the

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Commission, the Board, or any person
alleging such practice (not an
employment practice specifically
excluded from coverage under section
1977A(a)(1) of the Revised Statutes, 42
U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(d) Employees covered by Government
Employee Rights Act of 1991—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in sections 302
and 304 of the Government Employee
Rights Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–
16b, 2000e–16c, to the Commission or
any person alleging a violation of
section 302(a)(1) of such Act, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16b(a)(1), shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to the Commission or any
person, respectively, alleging an
unlawful employment practice in
violation of this section against an
employee described in 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(3)(D), except as provided in
paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and
procedures this section provides to the
Commission or any person alleging such
practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to the Commission or any
person alleging such practice (not an
employment practice specifically
excluded from coverage under section
1977A(a)(1) of the Revised Statutes, 42
U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(e) Employees covered by Section 717
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964—(1) In
general. The powers, remedies, and
procedures provided in section 717 of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–16, to the Commission, the
Attorney General, the Librarian of
Congress, or any person alleging a
violation of that section shall be the
powers, remedies, and procedures this
section provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, the Librarian of
Congress, or any person, respectively,
alleging an unlawful employment
practice in violation of this chapter
against an employee described in 42
U.S.C. 2000gg(3)(E), except as provided
in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this
section.
(2) Costs and fees. The powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 722 of
the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1988,
shall be the powers, remedies, and

PO 00000

Frm 00059

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54771

procedures this section provides to the
Commission, the Attorney General, the
Librarian of Congress, or any person
alleging such practice.
(3) Damages. The powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in section
1977A of the Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C.
1981a, including the limitations
contained in subsection (b)(3) of such
section 1977A, shall be the powers,
remedies, and procedures this section
provides to the Commission, the
Attorney General, the Librarian of
Congress, or any person alleging such
practice (not an employment practice
specifically excluded from coverage
under section 1977A(a)(1) of the
Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1981a(a)(1)).
(f) Prohibition against retaliation—(1)
In general. No person shall discriminate
against any employee, applicant, or
former employee because such
individual has opposed any act or
practice made unlawful by the PWFA or
because such individual made a charge,
testified, assisted, or participated in any
manner in an investigation, proceeding,
or hearing under the PWFA.
(i) An employee, applicant, or former
employee need not be a qualified
employee, applicant, or former
employee with a known limitation to
bring an action under this paragraph
(f)(1).
(ii) A request for reasonable
accommodation for a known limitation
under the PWFA constitutes protected
activity under this paragraph (f)(1).
(iii) An employee, applicant, or
former employee does not actually have
to be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under the PWFA in
order for the retaliation to be actionable.
(iv) A covered entity requiring
supporting documentation when it is
not reasonable under the circumstances
for the covered entity to determine
whether to provide the accommodation
is a violation of this paragraph (f)(1).
(v) When an employee or applicant
(or a representative of an employee or
applicant) provides sufficient
information or documentation to
describe or confirm the known
limitation and to substantiate the need
for a reasonable accommodation,
continued efforts by the covered entity
to require that the employee or
applicant (or the representative of such
individual) provide more information or
documentation is a violation of this
paragraph, unless the covered entity has
a good faith belief that the submitted
information or documentation is
insufficient.
(2) Prohibition against coercion. It is
unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten,
harass, or interfere with any individual
in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54772

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

account of such individual having
exercised or enjoyed, or because that
individual aided or encouraged any
other individual in the exercise or
enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by the PWFA.
(i) An individual need not meet the
definition of a ‘‘qualified employee’’ or
have a ‘‘known limitation’’ under the
PWFA to bring an action under this
paragraph (f)(2).
(ii) A request for reasonable
accommodation for a known limitation
under the PWFA constitutes protected
activity under this paragraph (f)(2).
(iii) An individual does not actually
have to be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under the PWFA for the
coercion, intimidation, threats,
harassment, or interference to be
actionable.
(iv) A covered entity requiring
supporting documentation when it is
not reasonable under the circumstances
for the covered entity to determine
whether to provide the accommodation
is a violation of this paragraph (f)(2).
(v) When an employee or applicant
(or a representative of an employee or
applicant) provides sufficient
information or documentation to
describe or confirm the known
limitation and to substantiate the need
for a reasonable accommodation,
continued efforts by the covered entity
to require that the employee or
applicant (or a representative of such
individual) provide more information or
documentation is a violation of this
paragraph, unless the covered entity has
a good faith belief that the submitted
information or documentation is
insufficient.
(3) Remedy. The remedies and
procedures otherwise provided for
under this section shall be available to
aggrieved individuals with respect to
violations of this section regarding
retaliation, coercion, interference, or
intimidation, threats, or harassment.
(g) Limitation on monetary damages.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(3),
(b)(3), (c)(3), (d)(3), and (e)(3) of this
section, if an unlawful employment
practice involves the provision of a
reasonable accommodation pursuant to
this section, damages may not be
awarded under section 1977A of the
Revised Statutes, 42 U.S.C. 1981a, if the
covered entity demonstrates good faith
efforts, in consultation with the
employee or applicant with known
limitations related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions who has
informed the covered entity that
accommodation is needed, to identify

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

and make a reasonable accommodation
that would provide such employee or
applicant with an equally effective
opportunity and would not cause an
undue hardship on the operation of the
covered entity.
§ 1636.6

Waiver of State immunity.

A State shall not be immune under
the 11th Amendment to the Constitution
from an action in a Federal or State
court of competent jurisdiction for a
violation of the PWFA. In any action
against a State for a violation of the
PWFA, remedies (including remedies
both at law and in equity) are available
for such a violation to the same extent
such remedies are available for such a
violation in an action against any public
or private entity other than a State.
§ 1636.7

Relationship to other laws.

(a) In general. (1) The PWFA and this
regulation do not invalidate or limit the
powers, remedies, and procedures
under any Federal law, State law, or the
law of any political subdivision of any
State or jurisdiction that provides
greater or equal protection for
individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
(2) The PWFA and this regulation do
not require an employer-sponsored
health plan to pay for or cover any
particular item, procedure, or treatment
or affect any right or remedy available
under any other Federal, State, or local
law with respect to any such payment
or coverage requirement.
(b) Rule of construction. This statute
is subject to the applicability to
religious employment set forth in
section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e–1(a).
(1) Nothing in this provision limits
the rights under the U.S. Constitution of
a covered entity.
(2) Nothing in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b)
of the PWFA or this regulation should
be interpreted to limit an employee’s,
applicant’s, or former employee’s rights
under other civil rights statutes.
§ 1636.8

Severability.

(a) If any provision of the PWFA or
the application of that provision to
particular persons or circumstances is
held invalid or found to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of the
statute and the application of that
provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
(b) If any provision of the regulation
that uses the same language as in the
statute or the application of that
provision to particular persons or
circumstances is held invalid or found

PO 00000

Frm 00060

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

to be unconstitutional, the remainder of
the regulation and the application of
that provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
(c) If any provision of the regulation
that provides additional guidance to
carry out the PWFA, including
examples of reasonable
accommodations, or the application of
that provision to particular persons or
circumstances is held invalid or found
to be unconstitutional, the remainder of
the regulation and the application of
that provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected.
Appendix A to Part 1636—Interpretive
Guidance on the Pregnant Workers
Fairness Act
On December 29, 2022, President Biden
signed the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
(PWFA) into law.1 The PWFA requires a
covered entity to provide reasonable
accommodations to a qualified employee’s or
applicant’s known limitation related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions,
absent undue hardship on the operation of
the business of the covered entity. 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–3 requires the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC or
Commission) to promulgate regulations to
implement the PWFA.
The PWFA prohibits a covered entity from
(1) denying a qualified employee or applicant
with a known limitation a reasonable
accommodation, absent undue hardship; (2)
requiring a qualified employee or applicant
to accept an accommodation other than one
arrived at through the interactive process; (3)
denying an employment opportunity to a
qualified employee or applicant if the denial
is based on the employer’s need or potential
need to make a reasonable accommodation
for the known limitation of the employee or
applicant; (4) requiring a qualified employee
with a known limitation to take leave, either
paid or unpaid, if another effective
reasonable accommodation exists that does
not cause an undue hardship; and (5) taking
an adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment against a qualified
employee, applicant, or former employee on
account of the employee, applicant, or former
employee requesting or using a reasonable
accommodation for a known limitation. The
PWFA also prohibits retaliation against
applicants, employees, or former employees
for opposing unlawful discrimination,
making a charge, testifying, assisting, or
participating in any manner in a PWFA
investigation, hearing, or proceeding. Finally,
the PWFA prohibits coercing, intimidating,
threatening, or interfering with any
individual related to the exercise or
enjoyment of any right, including aiding or
encouraging another individual in such
exercise or enjoyment, under the statute.
1 Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Public
Law 117–328, Division II, 136 Stat. 4459, 6084
(2022) (codified at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2000gg–6).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (‘‘the Commission’’ or ‘‘the
EEOC’’) is responsible for enforcing the
PWFA with respect to employees covered by
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
employees covered by the Government
Employee Rights Act of 1991 (GERA).
Employees covered by section 706 of Title
VII may file charges with the EEOC and the
EEOC will investigate them using the same
process as set out in Title VII. Similarly,
employees covered by section 717 of Title VII
may file complaints with the relevant Federal
agency which will investigate them, and the
EEOC will process appeals using the same
process as set out in Title VII for Federal
employees.
This Interpretive Guidance addresses the
major provisions of the PWFA and its
regulation and explains the major concepts
pertaining to non-discrimination with respect
to reasonable accommodations for known
limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions under the
statute. The Interpretive Guidance represents
the Commission’s interpretation of the issues
addressed within it, and the Commission will
be guided by the regulation and the
Interpretive Guidance when enforcing the
PWFA.
Section 1636.2 Definitions—General
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(3) uses ‘‘employee
(including an applicant)’’ in its definition of
‘‘employee.’’ Because the PWFA relies on
Title VII for its definition of ‘‘employee,’’ the
rule clarifies that the term also includes
‘‘former employee,’’ where relevant.2 The
regulation, and this appendix use the term
‘‘covered entity’’ and the term ‘‘employer’’
interchangeably. The regulation and this
appendix use the term ‘‘employee or
applicant’’ and ‘‘employee’’; where
appropriate, ‘‘employee’’ or ‘‘employee or
applicant’’ means ‘‘employee, applicant, or
former employee.’’
Section 1636.3
PWFA

Definitions Specific to

1636.3(a)(1) Known
Paragraph (1) adopts the definition of
‘‘known’’ based on the PWFA and thus
defines it to mean that the employee or
applicant, or a representative of the employee
or applicant, has communicated the
limitation to the covered entity.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(a)(2) Limitation
Paragraph (2) adopts the definition of
‘‘limitation’’ based on the PWFA and thus
defines it to mean a physical or mental
condition related to, affected by, or arising
2 42 U.S.C. 2000e(f). Under Title VII, the term
‘‘employee’’ includes former employees. See
Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346 (1997)
(holding that including former employees within
sec. 704(a) of Title VII’s coverage of ‘‘employee’’
was ‘‘consistent with the broader context of Title
VII and the primary purpose of sec. 704(a)); see also
EEOC, Compliance Manual Section 2: Threshold
Issues 2–III.A (2009), http://www.eeoc.gov/policy/
docs/threshold.html#2-III-A. This appendix uses
the term ‘‘worker’’ interchangeably with ‘‘employee
or applicant.’’ For purposes of the PWFA, the term
‘‘worker’’ does not apply to independent
contractors.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions. The ‘‘physical or mental
condition’’ that is the limitation may be a
modest, minor, and/or episodic impediment
or problem. The definition encompasses
when a worker affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions has
a need or problem related to maintaining
their health or the health of their pregnancy.3
The definition also includes when the worker
is seeking health care related to the
pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical
condition itself. This is consistent with the
ADA which permits reasonable
accommodations for obtaining medical
treatment 4 and recognizes that for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions the proper course of care can
include regular appointments and monitoring
by a health care professional.5
The general principle informing the rule’s
definition is that the physical or mental
condition (the limitation) required to trigger
the obligation to provide a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA does not
require a specific level of severity. This is
clear from the text of the statute, which does
not contain a level of severity, other than
stating that the limitation does not need to
meet the definition of a ‘‘disability’’ under
the ADA.6 The lack of a level of severity is
also necessary given the need the statute
seeks to fill. Workers who can show that their
pregnancy-related condition meets the
definition of a disability may be eligible to
receive an accommodation under the ADA;
workers whose limitations do not reach that
threshold are ineligible for such
accommodations, and the PWFA is intended
to cover those workers.7 Additionally, the
3 The regulation and the appendix use the term
‘‘maintain health or the health of the pregnancy.’’
This includes avoiding risk to the employee’s or
applicant’s health or to the health of their
pregnancy.
4 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the
ADA, at text after n. 49 (2002), http://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-unduehardship-under-ada [hereinafter Enforcement
Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation].
5 See, e.g., Office of Women’s Health, U.S. Dep’t
of Health and Human Servs., Prenatal Care (last
visited July 18, 2023) (stating that during pregnancy
usually visits are once a month until week 28, twice
a month from weeks 28–36 and once a week from
weeks 36 to birth) https://www.womenshealth.gov/
a-z-topics/prenatal-care; Am. Coll. of Obstetricians
& Gynecologists, Comm. Opinion No. 736,
Optimizing Post-Partum Care (stating the
importance of regular post-partum care) (2021)
(https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2018/05/optimizingpostpartum-care) & Opinion No. 826, Protecting
and Expanding Medicaid to Improve Women’s
Health (encouraging the expansion of Medicaid to
improve post-partum care) (2021) (https://
www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/
committee-opinion/articles/2021/06/protectingand-expanding-medicaid-to-improve-womenshealth).
6 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).
7 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4). See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No.
117–27, pt. 1, at 12 (workers whose pregnancyrelated impairments do not substantially limit a
major life activity and who are not covered by the
ADA can be covered by the PWFA); id. at 22–23
(accommodations are frequently needed by, and

PO 00000

Frm 00061

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54773

definition covers situations where a worker
seeks an accommodation in order to maintain
their health or the health of their pregnancy
and avoid more serious consequences and
when a worker seeks health care for their
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.8 Practically, allowing for
accommodations to maintain health and
attend medical appointments also increases
the chances that the accommodation is minor
and may decrease the need for a more
extensive accommodation because the
worker may be able to avoid more serious
complications.
Because the standard for known limitation
in the statute does not include a specific
level of severity and accommodations are
available for non-severe physical or mental
conditions, whether a worker has a physical
or mental condition related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions shall be construed
broadly to the maximum extent permitted by
the PWFA.
Related to, Affected by, or Arising Out of
Whether a physical or mental condition is
related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions usually will be obvious. For
example, if an employee is pregnant and as
a result has pain when standing for long
periods of time, the employee’s physical or
mental condition (pain when standing for a
protracted period) is related to the
employee’s pregnancy. An employee who is
pregnant and because of the pregnancy
cannot lift more than 20 pounds has a
physical condition related to pregnancy. An
employee who is pregnant and is seeking
time off for prenatal health care
appointments is attending a medical
appointment related to the pregnancy. An
employee who requests an accommodation to
attend therapy appointments for postpartum
should be provided to, people with healthy
pregnancies); id. (example of an ‘‘uneventful
pregnancy’’ in which a woman needed more
bathroom breaks); id. at 14–22 (outlining the gaps
left by Title VII and the ADA that the PWFA is
intended to fill so that pregnant workers can receive
reasonable accommodations); id. at 56 (noting that
‘‘minor limitations’’ can be covered because they
presumably only require minor accommodations).
8 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at text above
Question 17 (providing reasons for which an
employee may receive an accommodation,
including to obtain medical treatment and to avoid
temporary adverse conditions in the work
environment because of the effect on the worker’s
health). See, e.g., Markup of the Paycheck Fairness
Act; Pregnant Workers Fairness Act; Workplace
Violence Prevention for Health Care and Social
Service Workers Act 54:46 (2021), https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6Ie2S9sTxs, at 54:46
(statement of Rep. Kathy E. Manning) (goal of the
PWFA is to help pregnant workers ‘‘to deliver
healthy babies while maintaining jobs’’); id. at 21:50
(statement of Rep. Robert C. Scott) (‘‘[W]ithout these
protections, too many workers are forced to choose
between a healthy pregnancy and their
paychecks’’); id. at 1:35 (statement of Rep. Lucy
McBath) (‘‘[N]o mother should ever have to choose
between the heath of themselves and their child or
paycheck.’’); id. at 1:44 (statement of Rep. Suzanne
Bonamici) (‘‘[P]regnant workers should not have to
choose between a healthy pregnancy and a
paycheck.’’).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54774

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

depression has a medical condition related to
pregnancy (postpartum depression) and is
obtaining health care for the related medical
condition. A pregnant employee who is
seeking an accommodation to limit exposure
to secondhand smoke to protect the health of
their pregnancy has a physical or mental
condition (trying to maintain the employee’s
health or the health of their pregnancy or
increased sensitivity to secondhand smoke)
related to pregnancy. A pregnant worker
seeking time off in order to get an
amniocentesis is attending a medical
appointment related to the pregnancy. An
employee who requests leave for IVF
treatment for the worker to get pregnant has
a related medical condition (difficulty in
becoming pregnant or infertility) and is
seeking health care related to it. An employee
whose pregnancy is causing fatigue has a
physical condition (fatigue) related to
pregnancy. An employee whose pregnancy is
causing back pain has a physical condition
(back pain) related to pregnancy. This is not
an exhaustive list of physical or mental
conditions related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.
The Commission recognizes, however, that
some physical or mental conditions or
limitations, including some of those in the
examples above, may occur even if a person
is not pregnant (e.g., depression,
hypertension, constraints on lifting). To the
extent that a covered entity has reasonable
concerns about whether a physical or mental
condition or limitation is ‘‘related to, affected
by, or arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions,’’ the employer
may request information from the employee
regarding the connection, using the
principles set out in section 1636.3(l) about
the interactive process and supporting
documentation. For the most part, the
Commission anticipates that determining
whether a limitation or physical or mental
condition is related to, affected by, or arising
out of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions will be a straightforward
determination that can be accomplished
through a conversation between the employer
and the employee as part of the interactive
process and without the need for the
employee to obtain documentation or
verification, such as documentation from a
health care provider. Of course, even if a
covered entity concludes that a limitation is
not covered by the PWFA, the covered entity
should consider whether the limitation
constitutes a disability that is covered by the
ADA.
There may be situations where a physical
or mental condition begins as something that
is related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions, and, once the pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical condition is
over, the limitation remains. If an employer
has questions regarding whether the
limitation is still related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions, the employer
may use the principles set out in the sections
regarding the interactive process and
supporting documentation. Additionally,
there may be situations where that limitation

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

qualifies as a disability under the ADA. In
those situations, an employer may use the
principles set out in the sections on the
interactive process and supporting
documentation for the ADA.
1636.3(b) Pregnancy, Childbirth, or Related
Medical Conditions
The PWFA uses the term ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions,’’
which appears in Title VII’s definition of
sex.9 Because Congress chose to write the
PWFA using the same language as Title VII,
in the rule the Commission gives the term
‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions’’ the same meaning under the
PWFA as under Title VII.10
To assist workers and covered entities, the
regulation includes a non-exhaustive list of
examples of pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions that the Commission has
concluded generally fall within the statutory
definition. These include conditions that
Federal courts and the EEOC have already
concluded are part of the definition under
Title VII as well as other conditions that are
based on the expertise of medical
professionals. The list in the regulation for
the definition of ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’ includes current
pregnancy, past pregnancy, potential
pregnancy, lactation (including breastfeeding
and pumping), use of birth control,
menstruation, infertility and fertility
treatments, endometriosis, miscarriage,
stillbirth, or having or choosing not to have
an abortion, among other conditions.11 The
9 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).
10 See, e.g., Texas Dep’t of Housing & Cmty. Affs.
v. Inclusive Cmtys. Project, 576 U.S. 519, 536 (2015)
(‘‘If a word or phrase has been . . . given a uniform
interpretation by inferior courts . . . , a later
version of that act perpetuating the wording is
presumed to carry forward that interpretation.’’
(omissions in original) (quoting Antonin Scalia &
Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law 323 (2012)); Bragdon
v. Abbott, 524 U.S. 624, 644–45 (1998) (‘‘When
administrative and judicial interpretations have
settled the meaning of an existing statutory
provision, repetition of the same language in a new
statute indicates, as a general matter, the intent to
incorporate its administrative and judicial
interpretations as well.’’); Lorillard v. Pons, 434
U.S. 575, 581 (1978) (‘‘[W]here, as here, Congress
adopts a new law incorporating sections of a prior
law, Congress normally can be presumed to have
had knowledge of the interpretation given to the
incorporated law, at least insofar as it affects the
new statute.’’); Hall v. U.S. Dep’t of Agric., 984 F.3d
825, 840 (9th Cir. 2020) (‘‘Congress is presumed to
be aware of an agency’s interpretation of a statute.
We most commonly apply that presumption when
an agency’s interpretation of a statute has been
officially published and consistently followed. If
Congress thereafter reenacts the same language, we
conclude that it has adopted the agency’s
interpretation.’’) (citations and internal quotations
omitted); Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner,
Reading Law 323 (2012) (‘‘[W]hen a statute uses the
very same terminology as an earlier statute—
especially in the very same field, such as securities
law or civil-rights law—it is reasonable to believe
that the terminology bears a consistent meaning.’’).
11 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination and Related Issues I.A. (2015),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-pregnancy-discrimination-and-relatedissues [hereinafter Enforcement Guidance on
Pregnancy Discrimination] (‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions’’ include current

PO 00000

Frm 00062

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

pregnancy, past pregnancy, potential or intended
pregnancy, infertility treatment, use of
contraception, lactation, breastfeeding, and the
decision to have or not to have an abortion, among
other conditions); see, e.g., Hicks v. City of
Tuscaloosa, 870 F.3d 1253, 1259–60 (11th Cir.
2017) (finding lactation and breastfeeding covered
under the PDA, and asserting that ‘‘[t]he PDA
would be rendered a nullity if women were
protected during a pregnancy but then could be
readily terminated for breastfeeding—an important
pregnancy-related physiological process’’) (internal
citation and quotation omitted); EEOC v. Houston
Funding II, Ltd., 717 F.3d 425, 429–30 (5th Cir.
2013) (‘‘[A]s both menstruation and lactation are
aspects of female physiology that are affected by
pregnancy, each seems readily to fit into a
reasonable definition of ‘pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions’’’); Doe v. C.A.R.S. Prot.
Plus, Inc., 527 F.3d 358, 364 (3d Cir. 2008) (holding
that the PDA prohibits an employer from
discriminating against a female employee because
she has exercised her right to have an abortion);
Kocak v. Cmty. Health Partners of Ohio, Inc., 400
F.3d 466, 470 (6th Cir. 2005) (stating that the
plaintiff ‘‘cannot be refused employment on the
basis of her potential pregnancy’’); Turic v. Holland
Hosp., Inc., 85 F.3d 1211, 1214 (6th Cir. 1996)
(finding the termination of a pregnant employee
because she contemplated having an abortion
violated the PDA); Piraino v. Int’l Orientation Res.,
Inc., 84 F.3d 270, 274 (7th Cir. 1996) (rejecting
‘‘surprising claim’’ by the defendant that no
pregnancy discrimination can be shown where the
challenged action occurred after the birth of the
plaintiff’s baby); Carney v. Martin Luther Home,
Inc., 824 F.2d 643, 648 (8th Cir. 1987) (referencing
the PDA’s legislative history and noting
commentator agreement that ‘‘[b]y broadly defining
pregnancy discrimination, Congress clearly
intended to extend protection beyond the simple
fact of an employee’s pregnancy to include ‘related
medical conditions’ such as nausea or potential
miscarriage’’) (citations and internal quotations
omitted); Ducharme v. Crescent City Déjà Vu,
L.L.C., 406 F. Supp. 3d 548, 556 (E.D. La. 2019)
(finding that ‘‘abortion is encompassed within the
statutory text prohibiting adverse employment
actions ‘because of or on the basis of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions’’’);
Donaldson v. Am. Banco Corp., Inc., 945 F. Supp.
1456, 1464 (D. Colo. 1996) (‘‘It would make little
sense to prohibit an employer from firing a woman
during her pregnancy but permit the employer to
terminate her the day after delivery if the reason for
termination was that the woman became pregnant
in the first place. The plain language of the statute
does not require it, and common sense precludes
it.’’); Pacourek v. Inland Steel Co., 858 F. Supp.
1393, 1402–03 (N.D. Ill. 1994) (PDA gives women
‘‘the right . . . to be financially and legally
protected before, during, and after her pregnancy’’
and stating ‘‘[a]s a general matter, a woman’s
medical condition rendering her unable to become
pregnant naturally is a medical condition related to
pregnancy and childbirth for purposes of the
Pregnancy Discrimination Act.’’) (internal citations
and quotations omitted); Neessen v. Arona Corp.,
2010 WL 1731652, at * 7 (N.D. Iowa Apr. 30, 2010)
(finding the plaintiff covered by the PDA where the
defendant allegedly refused to hire her because she
had recently been pregnant and given birth); 29 CFR
1604 app. Questions 34–37 (1979); H.R. Rep. No.
95–1786, at 4 (1978), as reprinted in 95th Cong., 2d
Sess. 4, 1978 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4749, 4766 (‘‘Because the
bill applies to all situations in which women are
‘affected by pregnancy, childbirth, and related
medical conditions,’ its basic language covers
decisions by women who chose to terminate their
pregnancies. Thus, no employer may, for example,
fire or refuse to hire a woman simply because she
has exercised her right to have an abortion.’’);
EEOC, Commission Decision on Coverage of
Contraception (2000), https://www.eeoc.gov/

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Commission emphasizes that the list in the
regulation is non-exhaustive, and to receive
an accommodation an employee or applicant
does not have to specify a condition on this
list or use medical terms to describe a
condition.
However, to be a ‘‘related medical
condition’’ as applied to the specific
employee or applicant in question, the
condition must relate to pregnancy or
childbirth. Some of the ‘‘related medical
conditions’’ listed in the regulation are
conditions that commonly, but not
necessarily, relate to pregnancy or childbirth.
If a worker has a condition that is listed in
the regulation but, in their situation, it does
not relate to pregnancy or childbirth, the
condition shall not be covered under the
PWFA. For example, if a worker has high
blood pressure but that medical condition is
not related to pregnancy or childbirth, a
physical or mental condition related to the
worker’s high blood pressure is not eligible
for an accommodation under the PWFA.
Other civil rights statutes, such as the ADA,
separately may entitle the worker to
reasonable accommodation. If an employer
has questions regarding whether a condition
is related to pregnancy or childbirth, the
employer may use the principles set out in
the sections regarding the interactive process
and supporting documentation.
‘‘Related medical conditions’’ include
conditions that existed before pregnancy or
childbirth (and for which an individual was
perhaps receiving reasonable accommodation
under the ADA) but that may be or have been
exacerbated by pregnancy or childbirth, such
that additional or different accommodations
are needed. For example, a worker who was
using unpaid leave as an accommodation to
attend treatment for anxiety may experience
a worsening of anxiety due to pregnancy or
childbirth and request an additional
accommodation. A worker who received
extra breaks to eat or drink due to Type 2
diabetes before pregnancy may need
additional accommodations during
pregnancy to monitor and manage the
diabetes more closely and avoid or minimize
adverse health consequences to the worker or
their pregnancy. A worker may have high
blood pressure that can be managed prior to
the pregnancy, but once the worker is
pregnant, the high blood pressure poses a
risk to the pregnancy and the worker needs
bed rest. In these situations, an employee
could request an additional accommodation
under the ADA or an accommodation under
the PWFA.
1636.3(c) Employee’s Representative
Paragraph (c) of this section of the rule
defines ‘‘employee’s representative’’ because
the known limitation may be communicated
to the covered entity by the employee or the
employee’s representative. Under the ADA, a
representative may also make the request for
an accommodation.12 Thus, the rule uses the
commission-decision-coverage-contraception (‘‘The
PDA’s prohibition on discrimination against women
based on their ability to become pregnant thus
necessarily includes a prohibition on
discrimination related to a woman’s use of
contraceptives.’’).
12 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, Question 2.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

same definition from the ADA and states that
this term encompasses any representative of
the employee or applicant, including a family
member, friend, health care provider, or
other representative.
1636.3(d) Communicated to the Employer
Paragraph (d) of this section of the rule
states that the PWFA’s requirement that the
known limitation be ‘‘communicate[d] to the
employer’’ means to make known to the
covered entity either by communicating with
a supervisor, manager, someone who has
supervisory authority for the employee (or
the equivalent for an applicant), or human
resources personnel, or by following the
covered entity’s policy to request an
accommodation. This should not be a
difficult task, and the employer should
permit an employee or applicant to request
an accommodation through multiple avenues
and means. Given that many
accommodations requested under the PWFA
will be straightforward—like additional
bathroom breaks or water—the Commission
emphasizes the importance of employees
being able to obtain accommodations by
communicating with the people who assign
them daily tasks and whom they would
normally consult if they had questions or
concerns. Employees should not be made to
wait for a reasonable accommodation that is
simple and imposes negligible cost, and is
often likely temporary, because they asked
the wrong supervisor.
Paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) explain that a
request for a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA, as with the ADA, does not
need to be in writing or use any specific
words or phrases. Instead, employees or
applicants may request accommodations in
conversation or may use another mode of
communication to inform the employer.13 A
covered entity may choose to write a
memorandum or letter confirming a request
or may ask the employee or applicant to fill
out a form or submit the request in written
form. However, the covered entity cannot
ignore or close the initial request because
that initial request is sufficient to place the
employer on notice.14 Additionally, even
though it is not required, an employee may
choose email or other similar written means
to submit a request for an accommodation to
ensure clarity and create a record.
Paragraph (d)(3) of this section of the
regulation sets out what an employee or
applicant must communicate to the employer
to request an accommodation under the
PWFA. Such a request has two parts. First,
the employee or applicant (or their
representative) must identify the limitation
that is the physical or mental condition and
that it is related to, affected by, or arising out
of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. Second, the employee or
applicant (or their representative) must
indicate that they need an adjustment or
change at work. As with the ADA, to request
an accommodation, an employee or applicant
may use plain language and need not
mention the PWFA; use the phrases
‘‘reasonable accommodation,’’ ‘‘known
13 Id. at Question 3.
14 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00063

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54775

limitation,’’ ‘‘qualified,’’ ‘‘essential function;’’
use any medical terminology; or use any
other specific words or phrases.
Examples
Example 1636.3 #1: A pregnant employee
tells her supervisor, ‘‘I’m having trouble
getting to work at my scheduled starting time
because of morning sickness.’’
Morning sickness is a physical condition
related to pregnancy that impedes a person’s
ability to eat and drink and requires access
to a bathroom. The employee has identified
a change needed at work (change in work
schedule). This is a request for a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #2: An employee who gave
birth three months ago tells the person who
assigns her work at the employment agency,
‘‘I need an hour off once a week for
treatments to help with my back problem that
started during my pregnancy.’’
The back problem is a physical condition
related to pregnancy, and the employee has
identified a change needed at work (leave for
medical appointments). This is a request for
a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #3: An employee tells a
human resources specialist that they are
worried about continuing to lift heavy boxes
because they are concerned that it will harm
their pregnancy.
The employee has a limitation because
they have a need or a problem related to
maintaining their health or the health of their
pregnancy, the employee identified a change
needed at work (assistance with lifting), and
the employee communicated this information
to the employer. This is a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #4: An employee’s spouse,
on the employee’s behalf, requests light duty
for the employee because the employee has
a lifting restriction related to pregnancy; the
employee’s spouse uses the employer’s
established process for requesting a
reasonable accommodation or light duty for
the employee.
The lifting restriction is a physical
condition related to the employee’s
pregnancy, and the employee’s representative
(their spouse) has identified a change needed
at work (light duty). This is a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #5: An employee verbally
informs a manager of her need for more
frequent bathroom breaks, explains that the
breaks are needed because the employee is
pregnant, but does not complete the
employer’s online form for requesting
accommodation.
The need to urinate more frequently is a
physical condition related to pregnancy, and
the employee has identified a change needed
at work (additional bathroom breaks). An
employee need not use specific words or any
specific form or template to make a request
for accommodation. This is a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA.
Example 1636.3 #6: An employee tells a
supervisor that she needs time off to recover
from childbirth.
The need or a problem is related to
maintaining the employee’s health after
childbirth, and the employee has identified

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54776

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

a change needed at work (time off). This is
a request for a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA.15
1636.3(e) Mitigating Measures
There may be steps that a worker can take
to mitigate, or lessen, the effect of a known
limitation. Paragraph (e) of this section of the
rule explains that, as with the ADA, the
ameliorative, or positive, effects of mitigating
measures, as that term is defined in the
Commission’s ADA regulations, shall not be
considered when determining if the
employee has a limitation under the PWFA.
However, again as under the ADA, the
detrimental or non-ameliorative effects of
mitigating measures, such as negative side
effects of medication, the burden of following
a particular treatment regimen, and
complications that arise from surgery, may be
considered when determining if an employee
has a limitation under the PWFA.16
1636.3(f) Qualified Employee or Applicant
An employee or applicant must meet the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ in the PWFA in one
of two ways.17
As with the ADA, the determination of
whether an employee with a known
limitation is qualified should be based on the
capabilities of the employee at the time of the
relevant employment decision and should
not be based on speculation that the
employee may become unable in the future
to perform certain tasks, may require leave,
or may cause increased health insurance
premiums or workers’ compensation costs.18

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(f)(1) The First Part of PWFA’s
Definition of Qualified Employee or
Applicant—With or Without Reasonable
Accommodation
Under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6), employees are
qualified if they can perform the essential
functions of their jobs with or without
reasonable accommodation, which is the
same language as in the ADA and is
interpreted accordingly in the rule.
‘‘Reasonable’’ has the same meaning as under
the ADA on this topic—an accommodation
that ‘‘seems reasonable on its face, i.e.,
15 See infra § 1636.3(h) Particular Matters
Regarding Leave as a Reasonable Accommodation
for a discussion of how requests for leave interact
with situations where an employee has a right to
leave under an employer’s policy or another law;
see also EEOC, Employer-Provided Leave and the
Americans with Disabilities Act, Communication
After an Employee Requests Leave (2016), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/employer-providedleave-and-americans-disabilities-act [hereinafter
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave],
for an explanation of this interaction and other
helpful information about the interaction between
the ADA and other laws requiring employers to
provide leave to employees.
16 29 CFR 1630.2(j)(1)(vi), (j)(4)(ii); see also 29
CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(j)(1)(vi).
17 The PWFA does not address prerequisites for
a position; thus, whether an employee or applicant
is qualified for the position in question is
determined based on whether the employee or
applicant can perform the essential functions of the
position, with or without a reasonable
accommodation, or based on the second part of the
PWFA’s definition of ‘‘qualified.’’ 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(6).
18 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(m).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

ordinarily or in the run of cases,’’ ‘‘feasible,’’
or ‘‘plausible.’’ 19 Many workers seeking
reasonable accommodations under the PWFA
will meet this part of the definition. For
example, a pregnant attorney who uses the
firm’s established telework program to work
at home during morning sickness does not
need an accommodation to perform the
essential functions of the job and therefore is
qualified without a reasonable
accommodation. A pregnant cashier who
needs a stool to perform the job will be
qualified with the reasonable accommodation
of a stool. A teacher recovering from
childbirth who needs additional bathroom
breaks will be qualified with a reasonable
accommodation that allows such breaks.
Determining ‘‘Qualified’’ for the Reasonable
Accommodation of Leave
When determining whether an employee
who needs leave 20 as a reasonable
accommodation meets the definition of
‘‘qualified,’’ the relevant inquiry is whether
the employee would be able to perform the
essential functions of the position, with or
without reasonable accommodation (or, if
not, if the inability to perform the essential
function(s) is for a temporary period, the
essential function(s) could be performed in
the near future, and the inability to perform
the essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated), with the benefit of a period
of intermittent leave, after a period of parttime work, or at the end of a period of leave
or time off.21 Thus, an employee who needs
some form of leave to recover from a known
limitation caused, for example, by childbirth
or a miscarriage, can meet the definition of
‘‘qualified’’ because it is reasonable to
conclude that once they return from the
period of leave (or during the time they are
working if it is intermittent leave) they will
be able to perform the essential functions of
the job, with or without additional
reasonable accommodations or will be
qualified under the second part of the PWFA
definition that is described in the next
subsection. Of course, if an employer can
demonstrate that leave would pose an undue
hardship, for example, due to the length,
frequency, or unpredictable nature of the
19 U.S. Airways, Inc. v. Barnett, 535 U.S. 391,
401–02 (2002); see, e.g., Shapiro v. Twp. of
Lakewood, 292 F.3d 356, 360 (3d Cir. 2002) (citing
the definition from Barnett); Osborne v. Baxter
Healthcare Corp., 798 F.3d 1260, 1267 (10th Cir.
2015) (citing the definition from Barnett); EEOC v.
United Airlines, Inc., 693 F.3d 760, 762 (7th Cir.
2012) (citing the definition from Barnett); see also
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at text
accompanying nn.8–9 (citing the definition from
Barnett).
20 Different types of employers use different terms
for time away from work, including leave, paid time
off (PTO), time off, sick time, vacation, and
administrative leave, among others. Throughout the
preamble, the regulation, and the appendix, the
Commission uses the term ‘‘leave’’ or ‘‘time off’’
and intends those terms to cover leave however it
is identified by the specific employer.
21 If the employee will not be able to perform all
of the essential functions at the end of the leave
period, with or without accommodation, the
employee may still be qualified under the second
part of the PWFA’s definition of qualified employee
or applicant. 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).

PO 00000

Frm 00064

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

time off that was requested, it may lawfully
deny the request.22
1636.3(f)(2) The Second Part of PWFA’s
Definition of Qualified Employee or
Applicant—Temporary Inability to Perform
an Essential Function
The PWFA provides that an employee or
applicant can meet the definition of
‘‘qualified’’ even if they cannot perform one
or more essential functions of the position in
question, provided three conditions are met:
(1) the inability to perform an essential
function(s) is for a temporary period; (2) the
essential function(s) could be performed in
the near future; and (3) the inability to
perform the essential function(s) can be
reasonably accommodated.23
Based on the overall structure and wording
of the statute, the second part of the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is relevant only
when an employee or applicant cannot
perform one or more essential functions of
the job in question because of a known
limitation under the PWFA. It is not relevant
in any other circumstance. If the employee or
applicant can perform the essential functions
of the position with or without a reasonable
accommodation, the first definition of
‘‘qualified’’ applies (able to do the job with
or without a reasonable accommodation). For
example, if a pregnant worker requests
additional restroom breaks, the question of
whether they are qualified is simply whether
they can perform the essential functions of
their job with the reasonable accommodation
of additional restroom breaks, and there is no
need to apply the definitions of ‘‘temporary’’
or ‘‘in the near future,’’ or to determine
whether the inability to perform an essential
function can be reasonably accommodated
(as no such inability exists).
By contrast, some examples of situations
where the second definition may be relevant
include: (1) a pregnant construction worker
is told by their health care provider to avoid
lifting more than 20 pounds during the
second through ninth months of pregnancy,
an essential function of the worker’s job
requires lifting more than 20 pounds, and
there is not a reasonable accommodation that
will allow the worker to perform that
function without lifting more than 20
pounds; and (2) a pregnant police officer is
unable to perform patrol duties during the
third through ninth months of the pregnancy,
patrol duties are an essential function of the
job, and there is not a reasonable
accommodation that will allow the worker to
perform the essential functions of the patrol
position.
Example 1636.3 #7/Qualified Employee:
Launa has been working as a landscaper for
two years, and her job regularly involves
moving bags of soil that weigh 35–40 pounds.
22 As with the ADA, in determining whether leave
under the PWFA causes an undue hardship, an
employer may consider leave that the employee has
already used under, for example, the FMLA. See
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave,
supra note 15, at Examples 17 and 18. For more
information regarding leave as a reasonable
accommodation, see infra § 1636.3(h) Particular
Matters Regarding Leave as a Reasonable
Accommodation.
23 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(6).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
Launa becomes pregnant and lets her
supervisor know that she has a lifting
restriction of 20 pounds because of her
pregnancy.
3. Known Limitation: Launa’s lifting
restriction is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; Launa needs a change or
adjustment at work; Launa has
communicated this information to the
employer.
4. Qualified:
a. Launa may be qualified with a
reasonable accommodation of a device that
helps with lifting.
b. If there is no device or other reasonable
accommodation (or the device or other
reasonable accommodation is too expensive
or otherwise causes undue hardship for the
employer) the employer must consider
whether Launa meets the second definition
of qualified: whether (1) the inability to
perform the essential function is temporary,
(2) Launa could perform the essential
function in the near future, and (3) the
inability to perform the essential function
can be reasonably accommodated.
If the employer establishes that all possible
accommodations that would allow the
employee to temporarily suspend one or
more essential functions would impose an
undue hardship, then the employee will not
be qualified under the PWFA’s second
definition of qualified (because the inability
to perform the essential function cannot be
reasonably accommodated).24
1636.3(f)(2)(i) Temporary
The rule defines the term ‘‘temporary’’ to
mean that the need to suspend one or more
essential functions is ‘‘lasting for a limited
time,25 not permanent, and may extend
beyond ‘in the near future.’’’ As explained
below, how long it may take before the
essential function can be performed is further
limited by the definition of ‘‘in the near
future.’’

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(f)(2)(ii) In the Near Future
The rule defines ‘‘in the near future’’ to
mean generally forty weeks from the start of
the temporary suspension of an essential
function. This is based on the time of a fullterm pregnancy (forty weeks). In the
Commission’s view, to define ‘‘in the near
future’’ as less than generally forty weeks—
i.e., the duration of a full-term pregnancy—
would run counter to a central purpose of the
PWFA of keeping pregnant workers in the
workforce even when pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions necessitate the
24 If there is no reasonable accommodation that
allows the worker to continue to work, absent
undue hardship, the employee may be qualified for
leave as a reasonable accommodation if leave does
not cause an undue hardship.
25 Temporary, Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary,
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/temporary (‘‘lasting for a
limited time’’) (last visited June 13, 2023). This
definition is consistent with Robert v. Bd. of Cnty.
Comm’rs’ of Brown Cnty., Kan., 691 F.3d 1211, 1218
(10th Cir. 2012) which was cited in the House
Report in the discussion of this term. H.R. Rep. No.
117–27, at n.109) (when determining whether a
request for leave could be ‘‘reasonable’’ under the
ADA, defining ‘‘temporary’’ as that the essential
function can be resumed).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

reasonable accommodation of temporarily
suspending the performance of one or more
essential functions of a job.26 Of course, if an
accommodation is sought that requires the
temporary suspension of an essential
function, regardless of the amount of time
sought, the employer may raise the undue
hardship defense.
The Commission also recognizes there may
be physical or mental conditions related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions for
which workers may seek the temporary
suspension of an essential function when the
worker is not currently pregnant. These
conditions include pre-pregnancy limitations
such as infertility, and post-pregnancy
limitations such as acute cardio-vascular
problems that are a consequence of the
pregnancy. Although the length of pre- and
post- partum physical or mental conditions
will vary, the Commission proposes using
‘‘generally forty weeks’’ to measure whether
the worker meets the ‘‘in the near future’’
requirement in the second definition of
‘‘qualified’’ in every situation where the
reasonable accommodation sought under the
PWFA is the temporary suspension of one or
more essential functions.
The Commission’s decision is based on
several factors. First, in the first year after
childbirth, severe health conditions,
including ones that may require the
temporary suspension of an essential
function, are common.27 According to a
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) study, 53% of pregnancy-related
deaths occurred from one week to one year
after delivery, and 30% occurred one and one
half months to one year post-partum.28
26 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 5 (‘‘When
pregnant workers do not have access to reasonable
workplace accommodations, they are often forced to
choose between their financial security and a
healthy pregnancy. Ensuring that pregnant workers
have access to reasonable accommodations will
promote the economic well-being of working
mothers and their families and promote healthy
pregnancies.’’); id. at 22 (‘‘When pregnant workers
are not provided reasonable accommodations on the
job, they are oftentimes forced to choose between
economic security and their health or the health of
their babies.’’); id. at 24 (‘‘Ensuring pregnant
workers have reasonable accommodations helps
ensure that pregnant workers remain healthy and
earn an income when they need it the most.’’); id.
at 33 (‘‘The PWFA is about ensuring that pregnant
workers can stay safe and healthy on the job by
being provided reasonable accommodations for
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
. . . . The PWFA is one crucial step needed to
reduce the disparities pregnant workers face by
ensuring that pregnant women, and especially
pregnant women of color, can remain safe and
healthy at work.’’).
27 Susan Trost et. al., Pregnancy-Related Deaths:
Data from Maternal Mortality Review Committees in
36 U.S. States, 2017–2019, Ctrs. for Disease Control
& Prevention, U.S. Dep’t of Health and Human
Servs. (2022), https://www.cdc.gov/
reproductivehealth/maternal-mortality/erase-mm/
data-mmrc.html.
28 Id. More deaths occurred seven to 365 days
after delivery than occurred during delivery itself
(53.3% v. 21.6%). The leading causes of death were
mental health conditions, hemorrhage, cardiac and
coronary conditions, infection, thrombotic
embolism, and cardiomyopathy. The leading causes
of death varied by race and ethnicity. For Black

PO 00000

Frm 00065

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54777

Likely for similar reasons, thirty-five States
and the District of Columbia provide twelve
months of comprehensive Medicaid coverage
after delivery, rather than sixty days.29 Thus,
allowing a worker to meet the second
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ if they need an
essential function temporarily suspended for
generally forty weeks after return to work
from childbirth (or for other reasons related
to a known limitation) is a reasonable
approximation of the period of time needed
‘‘in the near future’’ for conditions related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions and
therefore is consistent with the purpose of
the PWFA. Finally, in the Commission’s
view, one definition for ‘‘in the near future’’
will allow for simplified administration.
The Commission emphasizes that the
definition in this section does not mean that
the essential function(s) must always be
suspended for forty weeks, or that if an
employee seeks the temporary suspension of
an essential function(s) for forty weeks it
must be automatically granted. The actual
length of the temporary suspension of the
essential function(s) will depend upon what
the employee requires, and the covered entity
always has available the defense that it
would create an undue hardship. However,
the mere fact that the temporary suspension
of one or more essential functions is needed
for any time period up to and including
generally forty weeks will not, on its own,
render a worker unqualified under the
PWFA.
Further, the Commission recognizes that
workers may need an essential function
temporarily suspended because of pregnancy;
may take leave to recover from childbirth;
and, upon returning to work, may need the
same essential function or a different one
temporarily suspended due to a new or
different physical or mental condition related
to, affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions. In
keeping with the requirement that the
determinations as to whether an individual is
qualified under the PWFA should be made
based on the situation at hand and the
accommodation currently at issue,30 the
determination of ‘‘in the near future’’ shall be
made when the employee asks for each
accommodation that requires the suspension
of one or more essential functions. Thus, a
individuals, cardiac and coronary conditions were
the leading causes of death; for White individuals
and Hispanic individuals, the leading cause was
mental health conditions; for Asian individuals, the
leading cause of death was hemorrhage. The leading
cause of death for Native American individuals was
not reported due to small sample size.
29 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, U.S.
Dep’t of Health and Human Servs., States that have
Expanded Postpartum Coverage, (last visited July
19, 2023) https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/
quality-of-care/downloads/image-maternity-careexpansion.png.
30 See 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.1 (‘‘The
determination of whether an individual with a
disability is qualified is to be made at the time of
the employment decision. The determination
should be based on the capabilities of the
individual with the disability at the time of the
employment decision, and not be based on
speculation that the employee may become unable
in the future’’).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54778

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

worker who is three months pregnant seeking
an accommodation of the temporary
suspension of an essential function will meet
the definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for ‘‘in the near
future’’ because the pregnancy will be over
in less than forty weeks. When the worker
returns from leave after childbirth, if the
worker needs an essential function
temporarily suspended, they will meet the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for ‘‘in the near
future’’ if they could perform the essential
function within forty weeks of the
suspension. In other words, for ‘‘in the near
future,’’ the forty weeks would restart once
the pregnancy is over and the worker returns
to work after leave.
In the Commission’s view, restarting the
calculation of ‘‘generally forty weeks’’ in the
definition of ‘‘qualified’’ for ‘‘in the near
future’’ is necessary because it would often
be difficult, if not impossible, for a pregnant
employee to predict what their limitations (if
any) will be after pregnancy. Before
childbirth, they may not know whether, and
if so, for how long, they will have a known
limitation or need an accommodation after
giving birth. They also may not know
whether the accommodation after childbirth
will require the temporary suspension of an
essential function, and, if so, for how long.
All of these questions may be relevant under
the PWFA’s second definition of ‘‘qualified.’’
Further, a rule that allows a covered entity
to combine periods of the temporary
suspension of essential function(s) during
pregnancy and the post-partum period in
order to determine if a worker is ‘‘qualified’’
would raise questions about, for example,
whether the requests were close enough in
time to be combined and whether the forty
weeks should restart if a different essential
function needs to be temporarily suspended.
Determining where and how those lines
should be drawn would require litigation
regarding the term ‘‘qualified’’ and create
confusion around implementation of the
statute.
The Commission notes that leave related to
recovery from pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions does not count as
time when an essential function is suspended
and thus is not relevant for the second prong
of the definition of qualified. If an individual
needs leave as a reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA or, indeed, any reasonable
accommodation other than the temporary
suspension of an essential function, only the
first definition of ‘‘qualified’’ is relevant. In
the case of leave, the question would be
whether the individual, after returning from
the requested period of leave, would be able
to perform the essential functions of the
position with or without reasonable
accommodation (or, if not, if the inability to
perform the essential function(s) is for a
temporary period, the essential function(s)
could be performed in the near future, and
the inability to perform the essential
function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated). Furthermore, for some
workers, leave to recover from childbirth will
not require a reasonable accommodation
because they have a right to leave under
Federal, State, or local law or as part of an
employer policy. Thus, for the purpose of
determining whether the employee is

VerDate Sep<11>2014

20:21 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

qualified under the second prong of
‘‘qualified’’ regarding the suspension of an
essential function, the Commission does not
intend for employers or workers to count
time on leave for recovery from childbirth.31
The Commission does not believe that its
definition of ‘‘in the near future’’ will cause
excessive difficulties for covered entities
because the ‘‘generally forty weeks’’ time
period is only to determine if the worker can
be considered qualified under this definition.
If the temporary suspension of the essential
function causes undue hardship or (as
explained in the next section) the temporary
suspension of the essential function cannot
be reasonably accommodated, the employer
does not have to provide the reasonable
accommodation.
1636.3(f)(2)(iii) Can Be Reasonably
Accommodated
To satisfy the PWFA’s second definition of
‘‘qualified,’’ the covered entity must be able
to reasonably accommodate the inability to
perform one or more essential functions
without undue hardship. For some positions,
this may mean that one or more essential
functions are temporarily suspended, with or
without reassignment to someone else, and
the employee continues to perform the
remaining functions of the job. For other jobs,
some of the essential functions may be
temporarily suspended, with or without
reassignment to someone else, and the
employee may be assigned other tasks to
replace them. In yet other situations, one or
more essential functions may be temporarily
suspended, with or without reassignment to
someone else, and the employee may perform
the functions of a different job to which the
employer temporarily transfers or assigns
them, or the employee may participate in the
employer’s light or modified duty program.32
Throughout this process, as with other
reasonable accommodation requests, an
employer may need to consider more than
one alternative to identify a reasonable
accommodation that does not pose an undue
hardship. Depending on how the temporary
31 For additional information on how leave
should be addressed under the PWFA, see supra
With or Without Reasonable Accommodation—
Leave and infra Particular Matters Regarding Leave
as a Reasonable Accommodation.
32 See H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 27 (‘‘the
temporary inability to perform essential functions
due to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions does not render a worker
‘‘unqualified. . . . there may be a need for a
pregnant worker to temporarily perform other tasks
or otherwise be excused from performing essential
functions before fully returning to her position once
she is able.’’) ‘‘Light duty’’ programs, or other
programs providing modified duties, can vary
depending on the covered entity. EEOC,
Enforcement Guidance: Workers’ Compensation
and the ADA, text above Question 27 (1996),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-workers-compensation-and-ada
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation]. In the context of the regulation, the
Commission intends ‘‘light duty’’ to include the
types of programs included in Questions 27 & 28
of the Enforcement Guidance on Workers’
Compensation and any other policy, practice, or
system that a covered entity has for accommodating
employees, including when one or more essential
functions of a position are temporarily excused.

PO 00000

Frm 00066

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

suspension is accomplished, the covered
entity may have to prorate or change a
performance or production standard so that
the accommodation is effective.33
Example 1636.3 #8: One month into a
pregnancy, Akira, a worker in a paint
manufacturing plant, is told by her health
care provider that she should avoid certain
chemicals for the remainder of the
pregnancy. One of the essential functions of
this job involves regular exposure to these
chemicals. Akira talks to her supervisor,
explains her limitation, and asks that she be
allowed to switch duties with another worker
whose job does not require the same
exposure but otherwise involves the same
functions. There are numerous other tasks
that Akira could accomplish while not being
exposed to the chemicals.
3. Known limitation: Akira has a need or
a problem relating to maintaining the health
of her pregnancy, which is a physical
condition related to pregnancy; Akira needs
a change or adjustment at work; Akira has
communicated this information to her
employer.
4. Qualified: Akira needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function.
a. Akira’s inability to perform the essential
function is temporary.
b. Akira could perform the essential
functions of her job in the near future
because Akira needs an essential function
suspended for less than forty weeks.
c. Akira’s inability to perform the essential
function may be reasonably accommodated.
The employer can suspend the essential
function that requires her to work with the
chemicals and have her do the remainder of
her job. Alternatively, Akira can perform the
other tasks that are referenced or switch
duties with another worker. The employer
must grant the accommodation (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #9: Two months into a
pregnancy, Lydia, a delivery driver, is told by
her health care provider that she should not
lift more than 20 pounds. Lydia routinely has
to lift 30–40 pounds as part of the job. She
discusses the limitation with her employer.
The employer is unable to provide Lydia
with assistance in lifting packages, and Lydia
requests placement in the employer’s light
duty program, which is used for drivers who
have on-the-job injuries.
3. Known limitation: Lydia’s lifting
restriction is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; she needs a change in work
conditions; and she has communicated this
information to the employer.
4. Qualified: Lydia needs the temporary
suspension of an essential function.
d. Lydia’s inability to perform the essential
function is temporary.
e. Lydia could perform the essential
functions of her job in the near future
because Lydia needs an essential function
suspended for less than forty weeks.
f. Lydia’s need to temporarily suspend an
essential function of her job may be
reasonably accommodated through the
existing light duty program. The employer
must grant the accommodation (or another
33 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 19.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
1636.3(g) Essential Functions
The rule adopts the Commission’s
definition of ‘‘essential function’’ contained
in the regulations implementing the ADA
regulations: ‘‘the fundamental job duties of
the employment position the individual . . .
holds or desires,’’ excluding ‘‘the marginal
functions of the position.’’ 34 Thus, in
determining whether something is an
essential function, the first consideration is
whether employees in the position actually
are required to perform the function, and
relevant evidence includes both the position
description and information from
incumbents (including the employee
requesting the accommodation) about what
they actually do on the job.35
1636.3(h) Reasonable Accommodation—
Generally
42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) states that the term
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ has the
meaning given to it in section 101 of the ADA
and shall be construed as it is construed
under the ADA and the Commission’s
regulations implementing the PWFA. As
stated in the Appendix to the ADA
Regulations, ‘‘[t]he obligation to make
reasonable accommodation is a form of nondiscrimination’’ and is therefore ‘‘best
understood as a means by which barriers to
the equal employment opportunity [of an
employee or applicant with a known
limitation under the PWFA] are removed or
alleviated.’’ 36 A modification or adjustment
is reasonable if it ‘‘seems reasonable on its
face, i.e., ordinarily or in the run of cases;’’
this means it is ‘‘reasonable’’ if it appears to
be ‘‘feasible’’ or ‘‘plausible.’’ 37 An
accommodation also must be effective in
meeting the needs of the employee or
applicant, meaning it removes a workplace
barrier and provides the individual with
equal opportunity.38
Under the PWFA, a reasonable
accommodation has the same definition as
under the ADA.39 Therefore, like the ADA,
reasonable accommodations under the PWFA
include modifications or adjustments to the
job application process that enable a
qualified applicant with a known limitation
to be considered for the position;
modifications or adjustments to the work
environment, or to the manner or
circumstances under which the position is
done to allow a person with a known
limitation to perform the essential functions

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

34 29 CFR 1630.2(n).
35 29 CFR 1630.2(n); 29 CFR part 1630 app.
1630.2(n).
36 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
37 See supra note 19.
38 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 9 and
29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9 (providing that a
reasonable accommodation ‘‘should provide the
individual with a disability with an equal
employment opportunity. Equal employment
opportunity means an opportunity to attain the
same level of performance, or to enjoy the same
level of benefits and privileges of employment as
are available to the average similarly situated
employee without a disability.’’).
39 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

of the job; and modifications or adjustments
that enable an employee with a known
limitation to enjoy equal benefits and
privileges of employment.40 Because the
PWFA also provides for reasonable
accommodations when a worker temporarily
cannot perform one or more essential
functions of a position but could do so in the
near future, reasonable accommodation
under the PWFA also includes modifications
or adjustments that allow an employee with
a known limitation to temporarily suspend
one or more essential functions of the
position.
Additions to the Definition of Reasonable
Accommodation
Because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) states that
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ should have
the meaning of the term under the ADA and
the regulations set forth in for the PWFA, the
rule takes the definition of ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ provided in the regulations
implementing the ADA 41 and makes five
additions to apply it in the context of the
PWFA.
First, the rule replaces references to
‘‘individual with a disability’’ and similar
terms with ‘‘employee with a known
limitation’’ and similar terms.42
40 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(i)–(iii). The requirement
for reasonable accommodations that provide for
equal benefits and privileges is shorthand for the
requirement that an accommodation should provide
the individual with an equal employment
opportunity (29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9). This
requirement stems from the ADA’s prohibition on
discrimination in ‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges
of employment.’’ 42 U.S.C. 12112(a). The PWFA
prohibits adverse action in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment against a qualified
employee for using or requesting an
accommodation and Title VII—which applies to
workers affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions—prohibits
discrimination in the terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment. 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1).
Based on the text of the PWFA, Title VII, and the
requirement under the PWFA that reasonable
accommodation has the same definition as in the
ADA, the same requirement applies. Thus, a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
includes a change to allow employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. nondiscrimination in the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment or, in
shorthand, to enjoy equal benefits and privileges.
See also EEOC Compliance Manual Section 613
Terms, Conditions, and Privileges of Employment,
613.1(a) (1982) (‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges
of employment’’ are ‘‘to be read in the broadest
possible terms’’ and ‘‘a distinction is rarely made
between terms of employment, conditions of
employment, or privileges of employment’’),
https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/cm-613-termsconditions-and-privileges-employment#:∼:text=
The%20following%20employment
%20practices%20or%20activities%20
which%20are,or%20activity%20is
%20considered%20in%20its%20broad%20sense
[hereinafter Compliance Manual on Terms,
Conditions, and Privileges of Employment].
41 29 CFR 1630.2(o).
42 The rule also deletes examples of reasonable
accommodation that are unlikely to be relevant to
the PWFA, i.e., ‘‘provision of qualified readers or
interpreters.’’ A person covered by the PWFA who
is blind or deaf who needs these reasonable
accommodations because of their disability may be
entitled to them under the ADA. Nothing added or

PO 00000

Frm 00067

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54779

Second, the rule includes an addition to
the ADA’s definition of reasonable
accommodation that is required by the
PWFA. As explained in the discussion of the
term qualified employee above, the PWFA
provides that the temporary suspension of
one or more essential functions is a potential
reasonable accommodation by defining
‘‘qualified employee’’ to include an employee
who cannot perform one or more essential
functions of the position for a temporary
period, provided they could do so in the near
future, and the inability to perform the
essential function(s) can be reasonably
accommodated without undue hardship. The
rule illustrates the implications, meaning,
and application of this requirement.
Third, the rule incorporates certain
examples of accommodations long
recognized by the EEOC as reasonable
accommodations for individuals with
disabilities but not explicitly included in the
non-exhaustive examples of reasonable
accommodation in the ADA regulation.
These are discussed below in § 1636.3(i).
Fourth, in addition to noting paid leave
(whether accrued, short-term disability, or
another type of employer benefit) and unpaid
leave as examples of reasonable
accommodations, the rule states that either
type of leave to recover from childbirth is an
example of a potential reasonable
accommodation for pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions. This is explained
in more detail below.
Finally, the rule provides details about
potential reasonable accommodations related
to lactation.
Alleviating Increased Pain or Risk to Health
Due to the Known Limitation
Under the PWFA and the rule, a worker
may seek a reasonable accommodation in
order to alleviate increased pain or increased
risk to health that is attributable to the
physical or mental condition related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions that
has been communicated to the employer (the
known limitation).43 When dealing with
requests for accommodation concerning the
alleviation of increased pain or increased risk
to health associated with a known limitation,
the goal is to provide an accommodation that
allows the worker to alleviate the identified
increase in pain or risk to health.
Example 1636.3 #10: Celia is a factory
worker whose job requires her to move boxes
that weigh 50 pounds regularly. Prior to her
pregnancy, Celia occasionally felt pain in her
knee when she walked for extended periods
of time. After returning to work after having
a cesarean section, Celia’s health care
deleted from the PWFA’s list of reasonable
accommodations is intended to alter the ADA’s
standards. Nor does the exclusion of these
reasonable accommodations mean that they could
not be required under the PWFA in appropriate
circumstances, such as when pregnancy exacerbates
a pre-existing medical condition.
43 Depending on the facts of the case, the
accommodation sought will allow the employee to
apply for the position, to perform the essential
functions of the job, to enjoy equal benefits and
privileges of employment, or allow the temporary
suspension of an essential function of the job.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54780

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

provider says she should limit the tasks that
require moving boxes to no more than 30
pounds for three months because heavier
lifting could increase the risk to her health
and recovery. Celia can seek an
accommodation that would help her lift
between 30 and 50 pounds because it is
needed for her known limitation related to
childbirth. However, the PWFA would not
require the employer to provide an
accommodation regarding Celia’s knee pain
because that situation is not attributable to
Celia’s known limitation, unless there is
evidence that the pain in walking was
exacerbated by Celia’s pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions. The employer
may have accommodation responsibilities
regarding Celia’s knee pain under the ADA.
Example 1636.3 #11: Lucille has opioid use
disorder that she controls with medication.
After giving birth, she experiences
postpartum depression. As a result, she is put
on an additional medication that she must
take with food, and she starts therapy with
a new provider. Under the PWFA, Lucille
requests that she be allowed to take breaks
to eat when she needs to take her medication
and that she be allowed to use intermittent
leave to attend her therapy appointments.
Under the PWFA, the employer is required
to provide the requested accommodations (or
other reasonable ones) absent undue
hardship. The employer does not have to
provide an accommodation for Lucille’s
underlying opioid use disorder under the
PWFA, although it may have accommodation
responsibilities under the ADA.
Example 1636.3 #12: Jackie’s position at a
fabrication plant involves working with
certain chemicals, which Jackie thinks is the
reason she has a nagging cough and chapped
skin on her hands. Once she becomes
pregnant, Jackie seeks the accommodation of
a temporary suspension of an essential
function of working with the chemicals
because the chemicals create an increased
risk to her pregnancy. The employer provides
the accommodation. After Jackie gives birth
and returns to work, she no longer has any
known limitations. Thus, she can be assigned
to work with the chemicals again even if she
would rather not do that work, because the
PWFA only requires an employer to provide
an accommodation that is needed due to the
known limitation related to pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions.
Jackie’s employer may also have
accommodation responsibilities under the
ADA.
Example 1636.3 #13: Margaret is a retail
worker who is pregnant. Because of her
pregnancy, Margaret feels pain in her back
and legs when she has to move stacks of
clothing from one area to the other, which is
one of the essential functions of her position.
She can still manage to move the clothes, but,
because of the pain, she requests a cart to use
when she is moving the garments. Under the
PWFA, the employer is required to provide
the requested accommodation (or another
reasonable accommodation), absent undue
hardship, because doing so accommodates
Margaret’s limitation arising out of her
pregnancy. If Margaret also has wrist pain
that is not caused or exacerbated by the
pregnancy, Margaret’s employer is under no

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

obligation under the PWFA to provide an
accommodation for the wrist pain because it
is not related to, affected by, or arising out
of pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions. However, the employer may have
accommodation responsibilities regarding
Margaret’s wrist pain under the ADA.
Particular Matters Regarding Leave as a
Reasonable Accommodation
The Commission has long recognized the
use of all forms of paid and unpaid leave as
a potential reasonable accommodation under
the ADA, including for part-time
schedules.44 Given Congress’ extensive use of
ADA terms and provisions in the PWFA—
including specifically the definition of
‘‘reasonable accommodation’’—the
Commission proposes to include these
potential reasonable accommodations in this
proposal’s definition of reasonable
accommodation.
Leave, including intermittent leave, may be
a reasonable accommodation even if the
covered entity does not offer it as an
employee benefit.45 If an employee requests
leave as an accommodation or if there is no
other reasonable accommodation that does
not cause an undue hardship, the covered
entity must consider providing leave as a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA,
even if the employee is not eligible for leave
under the employer’s leave policy or the
employee has exhausted the leave the
covered entity provides as a benefit
(including leave exhausted under a workers’
compensation program, the FMLA, or similar
State or local laws).46
The rule also provides that leave to recover
from childbirth, miscarriage, stillbirth, or
other related conditions is a potential
reasonable accommodation (absent undue
hardship).47 The rule further explains that
workers protected by the PWFA must be
permitted to choose whether to use paid
leave (whether accrued, as part of a shortterm disability program, or as part of any
other employee benefit) or unpaid leave to
the same extent that the covered entity
allows employees using leave for reasons
unrelated to pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions to choose between these
various types of leave.48 However, as under
44 See 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(2)(ii); 29 CFR part 1630
app. 1630.2(o); Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 4, at text
accompanying nn.48–49.
45 See Technical Assistance on EmployerProvided Leave, supra note 15, at text above
Example 4.
46 Id. Of course, if an employee has a right to
leave under the FMLA, an employer policy, or a
State or local law, the employee is entitled to leave
regardless of whether they request leave as a
reasonable accommodation. An employee who
needs leave beyond what they are entitled to under
those laws or policies will need to request leave as
a reasonable accommodation.
47 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 29 (noting that
‘‘leave is one possible accommodation under the
PWFA, including time off to recover from
delivery’’).
48 A failure to allow a worker affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions
to use paid or unpaid leave to the same extent that
the covered entity allows employees using leave for
reasons unrelated to pregnancy, childbirth, or

PO 00000

Frm 00068

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

the ADA, an employer is not required to
provide additional paid leave under the
PWFA beyond the amount to which the
employee is otherwise entitled.
The Commission recognizes that there may
be situations where an employer
accommodates a pregnant employee with a
stool or additional breaks or temporarily
suspends one or more essential functions
under the PWFA, and then the employee
requests leave to recover from childbirth. In
these situations, the covered entity should
consider the request for the reasonable
accommodation of leave to recover from
childbirth in the same manner that it would
any other request for leave as a reasonable
accommodation. This requires first
considering whether the employee will be
able to perform the essential functions of the
position with or without a reasonable
accommodation after the period of leave, or,
if not, whether, after the period of leave, the
employee will meet the second definition of
‘‘qualified’’ under the PWFA.
Under the ADA regulations, a reasonable
accommodation cannot excuse an employee
from complying with valid production
standards that are applied uniformly to all
employees.49 However, for example, when
the reasonable accommodation is leave, the
employee may not be able to meet a
production standard during the period of
leave or, depending on the length of the
leave, meet that standard for a defined period
of time (e.g., the production standard
measures production in one year and the
employee was on leave for four months).
Thus, if the reasonable accommodation is
leave, the production standard may need to
be prorated to account for the reduced
amount of time the employee worked.50 For
example, if a call center employee with a
known limitation requests and is granted two
hours of leave in the afternoon for rest, the
employee’s required number of calls may
need to be reduced proportionately, as could
the employee’s pay. Alternatively, the
accommodation could allow for the
employee to make up the time at a different
time during the day so that the employee’s
production standards and pay would not be
reduced.
As under the ADA, an employee with a
known limitation who is granted leave as a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
is entitled to return to their same position
unless the employer demonstrates that
holding open the position would impose an
undue hardship.51 Likewise, an employer
must continue an employee’s health
insurance benefits during their leave period
related medical conditions to do so may be a
violation of Title VII as well.
49 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at text
accompanying n.14.
50 Id. at Question 19.
51 See id. at Question 18. As under the ADA, if
an employer cannot hold a position open during the
entire leave period without incurring undue
hardship, the employer must consider whether it
has a vacant, equivalent position for which the
employee is qualified and to which the employee
can be reassigned to continue their leave for a
specific period of time and then, at the conclusion
of the leave, can be returned to this new position.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
to the extent that it does so for other
employees in a similar leave status. When the
employee is ready to return to work, the
employer must allow the individual to return
to the same position (assuming that there was
no undue hardship in holding it open) if the
employee is still qualified (i.e., the employee
can perform the essential functions of the
position with or without reasonable
accommodation or if the employee meets the
PWFA’s second definition of qualified).52
Under the PWFA, an employer may deny
a reasonable accommodation if it causes an
undue hardship—a significant difficulty or
expense. Thus, if an employer can
demonstrate that the leave requested as a
reasonable accommodation poses an undue
hardship—for example, because of its length,
frequency, or unpredictable nature, or
because of another factor—it may lawfully
deny the requested leave under the PWFA.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Ensuring That Workers Are Not Penalized for
Using Reasonable Accommodations
Covered entities making reasonable
accommodations must ensure that their
ordinary workplace policies or practices do
not operate to penalize employees for
utilizing such accommodations. For example,
when a reasonable accommodation involves
a pause in work—such as a break, a part-time
or other reduced work schedule, or leave—
an employee cannot be penalized for failing
to perform work during such a non-work
period. Similarly, policies that monitor
workers for time on task (whether through
automated means or otherwise) and penalize
them for being off task may need to be
modified to avoid imposing penalties for
non-work periods that the employee was
granted as a reasonable accommodation.
Likewise, if an accommodation under the
PWFA involves the temporary suspension of
an essential function of the position, a
covered entity may not penalize an employee
for not performing the essential function that
has been temporarily suspended.
Penalizing an employee in these situations
would be retaliation for the employee’s use
of a reasonable accommodation to which
they are entitled under the law.53 It would
also render the accommodation ineffective,
thus making the covered entity liable for
failing to provide a reasonable
accommodation.54 The Commission seeks
comment on whether there are other
situations where this may apply and whether
examples would be helpful to illustrate this
point.
Personal Use
The obligation to provide reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, like the
ADA, does not extend to the provision of
adjustments or modifications that are
primarily for the personal benefit of the
individual with a known limitation.
However, adjustments or modifications that
might otherwise be considered personal may
be required as reasonable accommodations
‘‘where such items are specifically designed
52 Id. at Question 21.
53 Id. at Question 19; see also 2000gg–1(5),
2000gg–2(f) and the accompanying regulations.
54 Id. at Question 19.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

or required to meet job-related rather than
personal needs.’’ 55
For example, if a warehouse employee is
pregnant and is having difficulty sleeping,
the PWFA would not require as a reasonable
accommodation for the employer to provide
a pregnancy pillow and a white noise
machine to help with sleeping because they
are strictly for an employee’s personal use.
However, allowing the employee some
flexibility in start times for the workday may
be a reasonable accommodation because it
modifies an employment-related policy. In a
different context, if the employee who is
having trouble sleeping works at a job that
involves sleeping between shifts on-site, such
as a job as a firefighter, sailor, emergency
responder, health care worker, or truck
driver, a pregnancy pillow may be a
reasonable accommodation because the
employee is having a difficult time sleeping
because of the pregnancy, the employer is
providing the place and items necessary for
sleeping, and the employee needs a
modification of the items and place.
All Services and Programs
Under the PWFA, as under the ADA, the
obligation to make reasonable
accommodation applies to all services and
programs and to all non-work facilities
provided or maintained by an employer for
use by its employees so that employees or
applicants with known limitations can enjoy
equal benefits and privileges of
employment.56 Accordingly, the obligation to
provide reasonable accommodation, barring
undue hardship, includes providing access to
employer-sponsored placement or counseling
services, such as employee assistance
programs, and to employer-provided
cafeterias, lounges, gymnasiums,
auditoriums, transportation, and to similar
facilities, services, or programs.57
Interim Reasonable Accommodation
Providing an interim reasonable
accommodation is a best practice under the
PWFA in certain circumstances.58 An
employee may have an urgent need for a
reasonable accommodation due to the nature
or sudden onset of a known limitation under
the PWFA. For example, a pregnant
employee may experience vaginal bleeding,
which may indicate a more serious problem.
Upon discovering the bleeding, the employee
may ask for immediate leave to go see their
health care provider. The employee then may
need additional leave, telework, rest breaks,
or a later start time, beginning immediately.
In this situation, a covered entity, as a best
practice, should consider providing an
55 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
56 Id.
57 Id.
58 The same is true under the ADA. EEOC, Final
Report on Best Practices for Employment of People
with Disabilities in the State Government II.B.1
(2005), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/finalreport-best-practices-employment-peopledisabilities-state-government [hereinafter Best
Practices State Government] (noting that
‘‘[t]emporary accommodations may enable a worker
who has made a request for reasonable
accommodation under the ADA to continue
working while a final determination of whether to
grant or deny the accommodation is being made’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00069

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54781

interim reasonable accommodation that
meets the employee’s needs while the
interactive process is conducted. Similarly,
an employee recovering from childbirth may
ask for the reasonable accommodation of
more frequent or longer bathroom breaks, and
the covered entity should consider meeting
that need, as an interim reasonable
accommodation, before the conclusion of the
interactive process. Covered entities that do
not provide interim reasonable
accommodations are reminded that an
unnecessary delay in the interactive process
or providing a reasonable accommodation
may lead to liability under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(1) even if the reasonable accommodation is
eventually granted, as explained in detail in
§ 1636.4(a) of the regulation.
1636.3(i) Reasonable Accommodation—
Examples
The definition of ‘‘reasonable
accommodation’’ in the PWFA rule
incorporates certain accommodations long
recognized by the EEOC as reasonable
accommodations but not explicitly included
in the non-exhaustive examples of reasonable
accommodations in the ADA regulation. The
Commission notes that an employee or
applicant may need more than one of these
accommodations at the same time or as a
pregnancy progresses.
• Frequent breaks. The EEOC has long
construed the ADA to require additional
breaks as a reasonable accommodation,
absent undue hardship.59 For example, a
pregnant employee might need more frequent
breaks due to shortness of breath; an
employee recovering from childbirth might
need more frequent restroom breaks or breaks
due to fatigue because of recovery from
childbirth; or an employee who is lactating
might need more frequent breaks for water or
food.60
• Sitting/Standing. The Commission has
recognized the provision of seating for jobs
that require standing and standing for those
that require sitting as a potential reasonable
accommodation under the ADA.61
Reasonable accommodation of these needs
might include, but is not limited to, policy
modifications and the provision of
equipment, such as seating, a sit/stand desk,
or anti-fatigue floor matting, among other
possibilities.
• Schedule changes, part-time work, and
paid and unpaid leave. The Appendix to the
ADA Regulations explains that permitting the
use of paid leave (whether accrued, as part
of a short-term disability program, or as part
59 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 22; see
also See H. R. Rep. 117–27, pt. 1, at 22; 168 Cong.
Rec. S7,048 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of
Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S10,081
(daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert
P. Casey, Jr.).
60 Breaks may be paid or unpaid depending on
the employer’s normal policies and other applicable
laws. Breaks may exceed the number that an
employer normally provides because reasonable
accommodations may require an employer to alter
its policies, barring undue hardship.
61 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at General
Principles, Example B; see also H.R. Rep. No. 117–
27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54782

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

of any other employee benefit) or providing
additional unpaid leave is a potential
reasonable accommodation under the ADA.62
Additionally, the Appendix recognizes that
leave for medical treatment can be a
reasonable accommodation.63 By way of
example, an employee could need a schedule
change to attend a round of IVF
appointments to get pregnant; a part-time
schedule to address fatigue during
pregnancy; or additional unpaid leave for
recovery from childbirth, medical treatment,
post-partum treatment or recuperation
related to a cesarean section, episiotomy,
infection, depression, thyroiditis, or
preeclampsia.
• Telework. Telework or ‘‘work from
home’’ has been recognized by the EEOC as
a potential reasonable accommodation.64
Telework could be used to accommodate, for
example, a period of bed rest or a mobility
impairment.
• Parking. Providing reserved parking
spaces if the employee is otherwise entitled
to use employer-provided parking may be
reasonable accommodation to assist a worker
who is experiencing fatigue or limited
mobility because of pregnancy, childbirth, or
related medical conditions.
• Light duty. Assignment to light duty or
placement in a light duty program has been
recognized by the EEOC as a potential
reasonable accommodation under the ADA,
even if the employer’s light duty positions
are normally reserved for those injured onthe-job and the person with a disability
seeking a light duty position does not have
a disability stemming from an on-the-job
injury.65
• Making existing facilities accessible or
modifying the work environment.66
Examples of reasonable accommodations
might include allowing access to an elevator
not normally used by employees; moving the
employee’s workspace closer to a bathroom;
providing a fan to regulate temperature; or
moving a pregnant or lactating employee to
a different workspace to avoid exposure to
chemical fumes. As noted in the regulation,
this also may include modifications of the
work environment to allow an employee to
pump breast milk at work.67
62 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(o); see also
Technical Assistance on Employer-Provided Leave,
supra note 15. Additionally, an employer
prohibiting a worker from using accrued leave for
pregnancy- related reasons or while allowing other
workers to use leave for similar reasons may also
violate Title VII.
63 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.2(o).
64 See, e.g., Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 34.
65 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Workers’
Compensation, supra note 32, at Question 28; see
also 168 Cong. Rec. S7,048 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2022)
(statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey, Jr.) (‘‘What are
other types of reasonable accommodations that
pregnant workers may request? Light duty is a
common example.’’); id. at S7,049 (statement of
Sen. Patty Murray) (noting that workers need
accommodations because ‘‘their doctors say they
need to avoid heavy lifting’’); H.R. Rep.117–27, pt.
1, at 14–17 (discussing Young v. United Parcel
Serv., Inc., 575 U.S. 206 (2015), a case involving
light duty for pregnant workers).
66 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(1)(ii); (o)(2)(i).
67 On December 29, 2022, President Biden signed
the Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

• Job restructuring.68 Job restructuring
might involve, for example, removing a
marginal function that required a pregnant
employee to climb a ladder or occasionally
retrieve boxes from a supply closet.
• Temporarily suspending one or more
essential functions. For some positions, this
may mean that one or more essential
functions are temporarily suspended, and the
employee continues to perform the remaining
functions of the job. For others, the essential
function(s) will be temporarily suspended,
and the employee may be assigned other
tasks. For others, the essential function(s)
will be temporarily suspended, and the
employee may perform the functions of a
different job to which the employer
temporarily transfers or assigns them. For yet
others, the essential function(s) will be
temporarily suspended, and the employee
will participate in the employer’s light or
modified duty program.
• Acquiring or modifying equipment,
uniforms, or devices.69 Examples of
reasonable accommodations might include
providing uniforms and equipment,
including safety equipment, that account for
changes in body size during and after
pregnancy, including during lactation;
providing devices to assist with mobility,
lifting, carrying, reaching, and bending; or
providing an ergonomic keyboard to
accommodate pregnancy-related hand
swelling or tendonitis.
• Adjusting or modifying examinations or
policies.70 Examples of reasonable
accommodations include allowing workers
with a known limitation to postpone an
examination that requires physical exertion.
Adjustments to policies also could include
increasing the time or frequency of breaks to
eat or drink or to use the restroom.
Examples of Types of Reasonable
Accommodations
Example 1636.3 #14/Telework: Gabriela, a
billing specialist in a doctor’s office,
Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328
Division KK). The law extended coverage of the Fair
Labor Standards Act’s (FLSA) protections for
nursing employees to apply to most workers. The
FLSA provides most workers with the right to break
time and a place to pump breast milk at work. 29
U.S.C. 218d; U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Fact Sheet #73:
FLSA Protections for Employees to Pump Breast
Milk at Work (Jan. 2023), https://www.dol.gov/
agencies/whd/pump-at-work.2023), https://
www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fact-sheets/73-flsabreak-time-nursing-mothers. Employees who are
not covered by the PUMP Act or employees who
seek to pump longer than one year may seek
reasonable accommodations regarding pumping
under the PWFA. Further, employees who are
covered by the PUMP Act may seek additional
related accommodations, such as access to a sink,
a refrigerator, and electricity. See, e.g., U.S. Dep’t
of Lab., Notice on Reasonable Break Time for
Nursing Mothers, 75 FR 80073, 80075–76 (Dec. 21,
2010) (discussing space requirements and noting
factors such as the location of the area for pumping
compared to the employee’s workspace, the
availability of a sink and running water, the
location of a refrigerator to store milk, and
electricity may affect the amount break time
needed). The PUMP Act is enforced by the
Department of Labor, not the EEOC.
68 29 CFR 1630.2 (o)(2)(ii).
69 Id.
70 Id.

PO 00000

Frm 00070

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

experiences nausea and vomiting beginning
in her first trimester of pregnancy. Her doctor
believes the nausea and vomiting will pass
within a couple of months. Because the
nausea makes commuting extremely difficult,
Gabriela makes a verbal request to her
manager stating she has nausea and vomiting
due to her pregnancy and requests that she
be permitted to work from home for the next
two months so that she can avoid the
difficulty of commuting. The billing work
can be done from her home or in the office.
4. Known limitation: Gabriela’s nausea and
vomiting is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; Gabriela needs an adjustment or
change at work; Gabriela has communicated
the information to the employer.
5. Qualified: Gabriela can do the billing
work with the reasonable accommodation of
telework.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #15/Temporary
Suspension of an Essential Function: Nisha,
a nurse assistant working in a large elder care
facility, is advised in the fourth month of
pregnancy to stop lifting more than 25
pounds for the rest of the pregnancy. One of
the essential functions of the job is to assist
patients in dressing and bathing, and moving
them from or to their beds, tasks that
typically require lifting more than 25 pounds.
Nisha sends an email to human resources
asking that she not be required to lift more
than 25 pounds for the remainder of her
pregnancy and requesting a place in the
established light duty program under which
workers who are hurt on the job take on
different duties while coworkers take on their
temporarily suspended duties.
4. Known limitation: Nisha’s lifting
restriction is a physical condition related to
pregnancy; Nisha needs an adjustment or
change at work; Nisha has communicated
that information to the employer.
5. Qualified: Nisha is asking for the
suspension of an essential function. The
suspension is temporary, and Nisha could
perform the essential functions of the job ‘‘in
the near future’’ (generally within forty
weeks). It appears that the inability to
perform the function can be reasonably
accommodated through its temporary
suspension and Nisha’s placement in the
established light duty program.
6. The employer must grant the reasonable
accommodation of temporarily suspending
the essential function, or another reasonable
accommodation, absent undue hardship. As
part of the temporary suspension, the
employer may assign Nisha to the light duty
program.
Example 1636.3 #16: Same facts as above
but the employer establishes the light duty
program is limited to 10 slots and that all 10
slots are filled for the next 6 months. In these
circumstances, the employer must consider
other possible reasonable accommodations,
such as the temporary suspension of an
essential function without assigning Nisha to
the light duty program, or job restructuring
outside of the established light duty program.
If such accommodations cannot be provided
without undue hardship, then the employer
must consider a temporary reassignment to a

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
vacant position for which Nisha is qualified,
with or without reasonable accommodation.
For example, if the employer has a vacant
position that does not require lifting patients
which Nisha could perform with or without
a reasonable accommodation, the employer
must offer her the temporary reassignment as
a reasonable accommodation, absent undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #17/Assistance with
Performing an Essential Function: Mei, a
warehouse worker, requests via her
employer’s online accommodation process
that a dolly be provided to assist her in
moving items that are bulky to accommodate
her post-cesarean section medical restrictions
for three months.
4. Known Limitation: Mei’s need for
assistance in moving bulky items is a
physical condition related to childbirth; Mei
needs an adjustment or change at work; Mei
has communicated this information to the
employer.
5. Qualified: Mei could perform the
essential functions of her position with the
reasonable accommodation of a dolly.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #18/Appropriate Uniform
and Safety Gear: Ava, a pregnant police
officer, asks their union representative for
help getting a larger size uniform and larger
size bullet proof vest in order to cover their
growing pregnancy. The union representative
asks management for an appropriately sized
uniform and vest for Ava.
4. Known Limitation: Ava’s inability to
wear the standard uniform and safety gear is
a physical condition related to pregnancy;
Ava needs an adjustment or change at work;
Ava’s representative has communicated this
information to the employer.
5. Qualified: Ava is qualified with the
reasonable accommodation of appropriate
gear.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #19/Temporary
Suspension of Essential Function(s): Darina,
a pregnant police officer in the third month
of pregnancy, talks to human resources about
being taken off of patrol and put on light duty
for the remainder of her pregnancy to avoid
physical altercations such as subduing
suspects that may harm her pregnancy. The
department has an established light duty
program that it uses for officers with injuries
that occurred on the job.
4. Known Limitation: Darina has a need or
a problem related to maintaining the health
of her pregnancy; Darina needs an
adjustment or change at work; Darina has
communicated this information to the
employer.
5. Qualified: The suspension of the
essential functions of patrol duties is
temporary and could end ‘‘in the near future’’
(within generally forty weeks) And it appears
that the temporary suspension of the
essential function can be accommodated
through the light duty program.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship. In

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

determining if there is an undue hardship,
the employer cannot rely on the fact that this
type of modification is normally reserved for
those with on-the-job injuries. The fact that
the employer provides this type of
modification for other employees points to
this not being an undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #20/Temporary
Suspension of Essential Function(s): Rory
works in a fulfillment center where she is
usually assigned to a line where she has to
move packages that weigh 20 pounds. After
returning from work after giving birth, Rory
has a lifting restriction of 10 pounds due to
sciatica during her pregnancy. The restriction
is for 12 weeks. The employer does not have
an established light duty program. There are
other lines in the warehouse that do not
require lifting more than 10 pounds and
some of the packages on Rory’s usual line
weigh less than 10 pounds.
4. Known Limitation: Rory has a known
limitation related to pregnancy, childbirth, or
a related medical condition.
5. Qualified: The suspension of the
essential function of lifting packages that
weigh up to 20 pounds is temporary and
Rory could be able to perform the essential
function in the near future. It appears that the
temporary suspension of the essential
function could be accommodated by
temporarily suspending the requirement that
Rory lift more than 10 pounds or by assigning
her to a different line.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #21/Unpaid Leave: Tallah,
a newly hired cashier at a small bookstore,
has a miscarriage in the third month of
pregnancy and asks a supervisor for ten days
of leave to recover. As a new employee,
Tallah has only earned 2 days of paid leave.
The employer is not covered by the FMLA
and does not have a company policy
regarding the provision of unpaid leave, but
Tallah is covered by the PWFA.
4. Known limitation: Tallah’s need to
recover from the miscarriage is a physical or
mental condition related to pregnancy or
arising out of a medical condition related to
pregnancy; Tallah needs an adjustment or
change at work; Tallah has communicated
this information to the employer.
5. Qualified: After the reasonable
accommodation of leave, Tallah will be able
to do the essential functions of the position
with or without accommodation.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent an undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #22/Unpaid Leave for
Prenatal Appointments: Margot started
working at a retail store shortly after she
became pregnant. She has an uncomplicated
pregnancy. Because she has not worked at
the store very long, she has earned very little
leave and is not covered by the FMLA. In her
fifth month of pregnancy, she asks her
supervisor for the reasonable accommodation
of unpaid time off beyond the leave she has
earned to attend her regularly scheduled
prenatal appointments.
4. Known limitation: Margot’s need to
attend health care appointments is a need or

PO 00000

Frm 00071

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54783

a problem related to maintaining her health
or the health of her pregnancy; Margot needs
an adjustment or change at work; Margot has
communicated the information to the
employer.
5. Qualified: Margot can do her job with
the reasonable accommodation of leave to
attend health care appointments.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid time off (or
another reasonable accommodation) absent
undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #23/Unpaid Leave for
Recovery from Childbirth: Sofia, a custodian,
is pregnant and will need six to eight weeks
of leave to recover from childbirth. Sofia is
nervous about asking for leave so Sofia asks
her mother, who knows the owner, to do it
for her. The employer has a sick leave policy
but no policy for longer periods of leave.
Sofia does not qualify for FMLA leave.
4. Known limitation: Sofia’s need to
recover from childbirth is a physical
condition; Sofia needs an adjustment or
change at work; Sofia’s representative has
communicated this information to the
employer.
5. Qualified: After the reasonable
accommodation of leave, Sofia will be able to
do the essential functions of the position.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #24/Unpaid Leave for
Medical Appointments: Taylor, a newly
hired member of the waitstaff, requests time
off to attend therapy appointments for
postpartum depression. As a new employee,
Taylor has not yet accrued sick or personal
leave and is not covered by the FMLA. Taylor
asks her manager if there is some way that
she can take time off.
4. Known limitation: Taylor’s postpartum
depression is a medical condition related to
pregnancy, and she is seeking health care;
Taylor needs an adjustment or change at
work; Taylor has communicated this
information to the employer.
5. Qualified: Taylor can do the essential
functions of the job with a reasonable
accommodation of time off to attend the
therapy appointments.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation of unpaid leave (or another
reasonable accommodation) absent an undue
hardship.
Example 1636.3 #25/Unpaid Leave or
Schedule Change: Claudine is six months
pregnant and needs to have regular checkups. The clinic where Claudine gets her
health care is an hour drive away, and they
frequently get backed up and she has to wait
for her appointment. Depending on the time
of day, between commuting to the
appointment, waiting for the appointment,
and seeing her provider, Claudine may miss
all or most of an assigned day at work.
Claudine is not covered by the FMLA and
does not have any sick leave left. Claudine
asks human resources for a reasonable
accommodation such as time off or changes
in scheduling so she can attend her medical
appointments.
4. Known limitation: Claudine needs
health care related to her pregnancy;

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

54784

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

Claudine needs an adjustment or change at
work; Claudine has communicated that
information to the employer.
5. Qualified: Claudine can do the essential
functions of the job with a reasonable
accommodation of time off or a schedule
change to attend medical appointments.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation of time off or a schedule
change (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #26/Telework: Raim, a
social worker, is in the seventh month of
pregnancy and is very fatigued as a result.
She asks her supervisor if she can telework
and see clients virtually so she can rest
between appointments.
4. Known limitation: Raim’s fatigue is a
physical condition related to pregnancy;
Raim needs an adjustment or change at work;
Raim has communicated that information to
the employer.
5. Qualified: Assuming the appointments
can be conducted virtually, Raim can
perform the essential functions of her job
with the reasonable accommodation of
working virtually. If there are certain
appointments that must be done in person,
the reasonable accommodation could be a
few days of telework a week and then other
accommodations that would give Raim time
to rest, such as assigning Raim in-person
appointments at times when traffic will be
light so that they are easy to get to or setting
up Raim’s assignments so that on the days
when she has in-person appointments she
has breaks between them. Or the reasonable
accommodation could be the temporary
suspension of the essential function of inperson appointments.
6. The employer must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #27/Temporary
Workspace/Possible Temporary Suspension
of an Essential Function: Brooke, a pregnant
research assistant in her first trimester of
pregnancy, asks the lead researcher on the
project for a temporary workspace that would
allow her to work in a well-ventilated area
because her work involves hazardous
chemicals that her health care provider has
told her to avoid. She also points out that
there are several research projects she can
work on that do not involve exposure to
hazardous chemicals.
4. Known limitation: Brooke’s need to
avoid the chemicals is a physical or mental
condition related to maintaining the health of
her pregnancy; Brooke needs a change or
adjustment at work; Brooke has
communicated this information to the
employer.
5. Qualified: If working with hazardous
chemicals is an essential function of the job,
Brooke may be able to perform that function
with the accommodation of a well-ventilated
work area. If providing a well-ventilated
work area would be an undue hardship,
Brooke could still be qualified with the
temporary suspension of the essential
function of working with the hazardous
chemicals because Brooke’s inability to work
with hazardous chemicals is temporary, and
Brooke could perform the essential functions
in the near future (within generally forty

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

weeks). And it appears that her need to avoid
exposure to hazardous chemicals could also
be accommodated by allowing her to focus
on the other research projects.
6. The employer must provide an
accommodation such as a well-ventilated
space or another reasonable one, absent
undue hardship. If the employer cannot
accommodate Brooke in a way that allows
Brooke to continue to perform the essential
functions of the position, the employer must
consider alternative reasonable
accommodations, including temporarily
suspending one or more essential function(s),
absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #28/Temporary Transfer to
Different Location: Katherine, a budget
analyst who has cancer, is also pregnant,
which creates complications for her
treatment. She asks the manager for a
temporary transfer to an office in a larger city
that has a medical center that can address her
medical needs due to the combination of
cancer and pregnancy.
1. Known limitation: Katherine has a need
or problem related to maintaining her health
or the health of her pregnancy; Katherine
needs a change or adjustment at work:
Katherine has communicated that
information to the employer.
2. Qualified: Katherine is able to do the
essential functions of her position with the
reasonable accommodation of a temporary
transfer to a different location.
3. As under the ADA, a PWFA reasonable
accommodation can include a workplace
change to facilitate medical treatment,
including accommodations such as leave, a
schedule change, or a temporary transfer to
a different work location needed in order to
obtain treatment. The employer must grant
the accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #29/Pumping Breast Milk:
Salma gave birth thirteen months ago and
wants to be able to pump breast milk at work.
Salma works at an employment agency that
sends her to different jobs for a day or week
at a time. Salma asks the person at the agency
who makes her assignments to only assign
her to employers who will allow her to take
a break to pump breast milk at work.
1. Known limitation: Salma’s need to
express breast milk is a physical condition
related to lactation which is a related medical
condition; Salma needs a change or
adjustment at work; Salma has
communicated this information to the
covered entity.
2. Qualified: Salma is able to perform the
functions of the jobs to which she is assigned
with the reasonable accommodation of being
assigned to workplaces that will allow her to
pump at work.
3. The agency must grant the
accommodation (or another reasonable
accommodation) absent undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #30/Additional Breaks:
Afefa, a pregnant customer service agent,
requests two additional 10-minute rest breaks
and additional bathroom breaks as needed
during the workday. The employer
determines that these breaks would not pose
an undue hardship and grants the request.
Because of the additional breaks, Afefa
responds to three fewer calls during a shift.

PO 00000

Frm 00072

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

Afefa’s supervisor should evaluate her
performance taking into account her
productivity while on duty, excluding
breaks. Penalizing an employee for failing to
meet production standards due to receipt of
additional breaks as a reasonable
accommodation would render the additional
breaks an ineffective accommodation. It also
may constitute retaliation for use of a
reasonable accommodation. However, if there
is evidence that Afefa’s lower production was
due not to the additional breaks, but rather
to misconduct (for example, if she has
frequent and unexcused absences to make or
receive personal phone calls) or other
performance issues, the employer may
consider the lower production levels
consistent with the employer’s production
and performance standards.
1636.3(j) Undue Hardship
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) uses the
definition of ‘‘undue hardship’’ from section
101 of the ADA. The PWFA provides that the
term shall be construed under the PWFA as
it is under the ADA and as set forth in these
regulations. The rule, at (j)(1) of this
paragraph, reiterates the definition of undue
hardship provided in the ADA regulations,
which explains that undue hardship means
significant difficulty or expense incurred by
a covered entity. The rule then, at (j)(2) of
this paragraph, outlines some factors to be
considered when determining if undue
hardship exists.71
Consistent with the ADA, a covered entity
that claims that a reasonable accommodation
will cause an undue hardship must consider
whether there are other reasonable
accommodations it can provide, absent
undue hardship.72 Additionally, if the
employer can only provide a part of the
reasonable accommodation absent undue
hardship—for example, the employer can
provide six weeks of leave absent undue
hardship but the eight weeks that the
employee is seeking would cause undue
hardship—the employer must provide the
reasonable accommodation up to the point of
creating an undue hardship. Thus, in the
example, the employer would have to
provide the six weeks of leave and then
consider if there are other reasonable
accommodations it could provide that would
not cause an undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #31/Undue Hardship:
Patricia, a convenience store clerk, requests
that she be allowed to go from working fulltime to part-time for the last 3 months of her
pregnancy due to extreme fatigue. The store
assigns two clerks per shift, and if Patricia’s
hours are reduced, the other clerk’s workload
will increase significantly beyond his ability
to handle his responsibilities. The store
determines that such an arrangement will
result in inadequate coverage to serve
customers in a timely manner, keep the
shelves stocked, and maintain store security.
Based on these facts, the employer likely can
show undue hardship based on the
significant disruption to its operations and,
therefore, can refuse to reduce Patricia’s
hours. The employer, however, should
71 29 CFR 1630.2(p).
72 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodations, supra note 4, at text after n.116.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
explore whether any other reasonable
accommodation will assist Patricia without
causing undue hardship, such as providing a
stool and allowing rest breaks throughout the
shift.
Example 1636.3 #32/Undue Hardship:
Shirin, a dental hygienist who is undergoing
IVF treatments, is fatigued and needs to
attend medical appointments near her house
every other day. She asks her supervisor if
she can telework for the next 3 months. Fulltime telework may be an undue hardship for
the employer because Shirin’s essential
functions include treating patients at the
dental office. However, the employer must
consider other reasonable accommodations,
such as part-time telework while Shirin can
perform the billing functions of her job, a
schedule that would allow Shirin breaks
between patients, part-time work, or a
reduced schedule.
An employer’s claim that the
accommodation a worker seeks would cause
a safety risk to co-workers or clients will be
assessed under the PWFA’s undue hardship
standard. For example, consider a pregnant
worker in a busy fulfillment center that has
narrow aisles between the shelves of
products. The worker asks for the reasonable
accommodation of a cart to use while they
are walking through the aisles filling orders.
The employer’s claim that the aisles are too
narrow and its concern for the safety of other
workers being bumped by the cart would be
a defense based on undue hardship,
specifically § 1636.3(j)(2)(v) (‘‘the impact of
the accommodation upon the operation of the
facility, including the impact on the ability
of other employees to perform their duties
and the impact on the facility’s ability to
conduct business.’’). As with other requested
reasonable accommodations, if a particular
reasonable accommodation causes an undue
hardship because of safety, the employer
must consider if there are other reasonable
accommodations that would not do so.
Importantly, claims by employers that
workers create a safety risk merely by being
pregnant (as opposed to a safety risk that
stems from a pregnancy-related limitation)
should be addressed under Title VII’s bona
fide occupational qualification (BFOQ)
standard and not under the PWFA.73

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(j)(3) Undue Hardship—Temporary
Suspension of an Essential Function
To address that under the PWFA an
employer may have to accommodate an
employee’s temporary inability to perform an
essential function, the rule adds additional
73 See, e.g., UAW v. Johnson Controls, 499 U.S.
187 (1991) (striking down employer’s fetal
protection policy that limited the opportunities of
women); Everts v. Sushi Brokers LLC, 247 F. Supp.
3d 1075, 1082–83 (D. Ariz. 2017) (relying on
Johnson Controls and denying BFOQ in a case
regarding a pregnant worker as a restaurant server
noting that ‘‘[u]nlike cases involving prisoners and
dangers to customers where a BFOQ defense may
be colorable, the present situation is exactly the
type of case that Title VII guards against’’); EEOC
v. New Prime, Inc., 42 F. Supp. 3d 1201, 1214 (W.D.
Mo. 2014) (relying on Johnson Controls and denying
a BFOQ allegedly in place for the ‘‘privacy’’ and
‘‘safety’’ of women workers); Enforcement Guidance
on Pregnancy Discrimination, supra note 11, at
I(B)(1)(c).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

factors that may be considered when
determining if the temporary suspension of
an essential function causes an undue
hardship. These additional factors include
consideration of the length of time that the
employee or applicant will be unable to
perform the essential function(s); whether,
through the methods listed in
§ 1636.3(f)(2)(iii) (describing potential
reasonable accommodations related to the
temporary suspension of essential functions)
or otherwise, there is work for the employee
or applicant to accomplish; the nature of the
essential function, including its frequency;
whether the covered entity has provided
other employees or applicants in similar
positions who are unable to perform essential
function(s) of their positions with temporary
suspensions of those functions and other
duties; if necessary, whether there are other
employees, temporary employees, or third
parties who can perform or be temporarily
hired to perform the essential function(s) in
question; and whether the essential
function(s) can be postponed or remain
unperformed for any length of time and, if so,
for how long.
As with other reasonable accommodations,
if the covered entity can establish that
accommodating a worker’s temporary
suspension of an essential function(s) would
impose an undue hardship if extended
beyond a certain period of time, the covered
entity would only be required to provide that
accommodation for the period of time that it
does not impose an undue hardship. For
example, consider the situation where an
employee seeks to have an essential function
suspended for six months. The employer can
go without the function being done for four
months, but after that, it will be an undue
hardship. The employer must accommodate
the worker’s inability to perform the essential
function for the four months and then
consider whether there are other reasonable
accommodations that it can provide, absent
undue hardship.
1636.3(j)(4) Undue Hardship—Predictable
Assessments
The rule adds to the definition of ‘‘undue
hardship’’ a paragraph titled ‘‘predictable
assessments.’’ The Commission anticipates
that many accommodations sought under the
PWFA will be for modest or minor changes
in the workplace for limitations that will be
temporary. Without the accommodation, a
pregnant worker may quit their job or risk
their health, thereby frustrating the purpose
of the Act. Thus, in the regulation, the
Commission identifies a limited number of
simple modifications that will, in virtually
all cases, be found to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship when requested by an
employee due to pregnancy.
Under the ADA, the Commission has
determined that certain conditions will, in
virtually all cases, result in a determination
of coverage as disabilities.74 In a similar
manner, the Commission seeks to improve
74 See 29 CFR 1630.2(j)(3). There, as here, the
Commission did not supplant or alter the
individualized inquiry required by the statute but
provided common examples to illustrate its
application in frequently occurring circumstances.

PO 00000

Frm 00073

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54785

how quickly employees will be able to
receive certain simple, common
accommodations for pregnancy under the
PWFA and to reduce litigation. The
identification of certain modifications as
‘‘predictable assessments’’ does not alter the
definition of undue hardship or deprive a
covered entity of the opportunity to bring
forward facts to demonstrate a proposed
accommodation imposes an undue hardship
for its business under its own particular
circumstances. Instead, it explains that in
virtually all cases a limited number of simple
modifications are reasonable
accommodations that do not impose undue
hardship when requested by an employee
due to pregnancy.
These modifications are: (1) allowing an
employee to carry water and drink, as
needed, in the employee’s work area; (2)
allowing an employee additional restroom
breaks; (3) allowing an employee whose work
requires standing to sit and whose work
requires sitting to stand, and (4) allowing an
employee breaks, as needed, to eat and
drink.75
The rule includes this addition after
reviewing the information provided by
legislators and congressional witnesses that
these changes are regularly requested by
pregnant workers and that in practice these
modifications are virtually always reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship.76 Additionally, certain State
laws that are analogous to the PWFA single
out these modifications as ones that cannot
be challenged as an undue hardship or where
75 The first and fourth categories of predictable
accommodations are related but separate. The first
category of accommodations addresses a worker’s
ability to carry water on the worker’s person to
where the worker carries out job duties, facilitating
ready access to water without requiring the worker
to take a break to access and drink it. The
Commission recognizes that there may be work
locations where, unlike the presence of water in
most (if not all) work locations, the presence of food
or non-water beverages could contribute to an
undue hardship due to safety or other issues, such
that a worker must take a break from the location
in which the worker performs her duties in order
to access and consume those items. The fourth
category of accommodations addresses a worker’s
ability to take additional, short breaks in performing
work (either at the worker’s work location or a
break location) to eat and drink (including
beverages which are not water).
76 See H.R. Rep.117–27, pt. 1, at 11, 22, 29, 113;
Fighting for Fairness: Examining Legislation to
Confront Workplace Discrimination, Joint Hearing
Before the Subcomm. on Civ. Rts. and Hum. Servs.
& the Subcomm. on Workforce Prots. of the H.
Comm. on Educ. and Lab., 117th Cong. 4 (2021)
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici); Long Over
Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act
(H.R. 2694), Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Civ.
Rts. & Hum. Servs. of the H. Comm. on Educ. and
Lab., 116th Cong. 7 (2019) [hereinafter Long Over
Due] (statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 25
(statement of Iris Wilbur, Vice President of
Government Affairs and Public Policy, Greater
Louisville, Inc.); 83 (statement of Rep. Barbara Lee);
168 Cong. Rec. H10,527 (daily ed. Dec. 23, 2022)
(statement of Rep. Jerrold Nadler); 168 Cong. Rec.
S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22, 2022) (statement of Sen.
Robert P. Casey, Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. S7,079 (daily
ed. Dec. 8, 2022) (statement of Sen. Robert P. Casey,
Jr.); 168 Cong. Rec. H2,324 (daily ed. May 14, 2021)
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54786

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

different rules regarding documentation may
apply.77
Finally, the Commission emphasizes that
adoption of the predictable assessments
provision does not alter the meaning of the
terms ‘‘reasonable accommodation’’ or
‘‘undue hardship.’’ Likewise, it does not
change the requirement that, as under the
regulation implementing the ADA, employers
must conduct an individualized assessment
when determining whether a modification is
a reasonable accommodation that will
impose an undue hardship. Instead, the
paragraph informs covered entities that for
these specific and simple modifications, in
virtually all cases, the Commission expects
that individualized assessments will result in
a finding that the modification is a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Examples Regarding Predictable Assessments
Example 1636.3 #33/Predictable
Assessments: Amara, a quality inspector for
a manufacturing company, experiences
painful swelling in her legs, ankles, and feet
during the final three months of her
pregnancy. Her job requires standing for long
periods of time. Amara asks the person who
assigns her daily work for a stool so that she
can sit while she performs her job. Amara’s
swelling in her legs and ankles is a physical
condition related to pregnancy. Amara’s
request is for a modification that will
virtually always be a reasonable
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship. The employer argues that it
has never provided a stool to any other
worker who complained of difficulty
standing but points to nothing that suggests
that this modification is not reasonable or
that it would impose an undue hardship in
this particular case on the operation of the
employer’s business. The request must be
granted.
Example 1636.3 #34/Predictable
Assessments: Jazmin, a pregnant teacher who
typically is only able to use the bathroom
when her class is at lunch, requests
additional bathroom breaks during her 6th
month of pregnancy. Additional bathroom
breaks are one of the modifications that will
virtually always be found to be a reasonable
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship. The employer argues that
finding an adult to watch over the teacher’s
class when she needs to take a bathroom
break imposes an undue hardship, but
Jazmin points out that there are several
teachers with nearby classrooms, some
classrooms have aides, and there is an
administrative assistant who works in the
front office, and that with a few minutes’
notice, one of them would be able to either
stand in the hallway between classes to allow
77 See Wash. Rev. Code 43.10.005(1)(d)
(prohibiting the undue hardship defense if the
accommodation is frequent, longer, or flexible
restroom breaks; modifying a no food or drink
policy; providing seating or allowing employee to
sit more frequently if the job requires standing; and
certain lifting restrictions); Mass. Gen. Laws ch.
151B(4)(1E)(c) (limiting medical documentation if
the accommodation is more frequent restroom,
food, or water breaks, and certain lifting
restrictions).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Jazmin a trip to the bathroom or, in the case
of the administrative assistant, sit in the
teacher’s classroom for a few minutes several
times a day. The employer has not
established that providing Jazmin with
additional bathroom breaks imposes an
undue hardship.
Example 1636.3 #35/Predictable
Assessments: Addison, a clerk responsible
for receiving and filing construction plans for
development proposals, needs to maintain a
regular intake of water throughout the day to
maintain a healthy pregnancy. They ask their
manager if an exception can be made to the
office policy prohibiting liquids at
workstations. The ability to access water
during the day is one of the modifications
that will virtually always be found to be a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship. Here, although
the manager decides against allowing
Addison to bring water into their
workstation, he proposes that a table be
placed just outside the workstation where
water can be easily accessed and gives
permission for Addison to access this water
as needed. The employer has satisfied its
obligation to provide reasonable
accommodation.
1636.3(j)(5) Undue Hardship—Cannot Be
Demonstrated by Assumption or Speculation
Lastly, the rule provides that a covered
entity cannot demonstrate that a reasonable
accommodation imposes an undue hardship
based on an assumption or speculation that
other employees might seek a reasonable
accommodation—even the same reasonable
accommodation—or the same employee
might seek another reasonable
accommodation in the future.78 Relatedly, a
covered entity that receives numerous
requests for the same or similar
accommodation at the same time (for
example, parking spaces closer to the factory)
cannot deny all of them simply because
processing the volume of current or
anticipated requests is, or would be,
burdensome or because it cannot grant all of
them as requested. Rather, the covered entity
must evaluate and provide reasonable
accommodations unless or until doing so
imposes an undue hardship. The covered
entity may point to past and cumulative costs
or burden of accommodations that have
already been granted to other employees
when claiming the hardship posed by
another request for the same or similar
accommodation.
1636.3(k) Interactive Process
General Definition and Additions
The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg(7) refers to
the definitions from the ADA that apply to
the PWFA and states that this includes the
‘‘interactive process,’’ a term from the ADA,
and how it ‘‘will typically be used to
determine an appropriate reasonable
accommodation.’’ The rule largely adopts the
explanation of the interactive process in the
regulations implementing the ADA so that
the interactive process under the PWFA
generally mirrors the same process under the
78 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at n.113.

PO 00000

Frm 00074

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

ADA.79 The rule also notes that there are no
rigid steps that must be followed when
engaging in the interactive process under the
PWFA. The regulation makes the following
adjustments to the definition of interactive
process from the ADA in order to apply it to
the PWFA.
First, the definition replaces references to
‘‘individual with disability’’ and similar
terms with ‘‘employee with known
limitations’’ and similar terms.
Second, the rule does not include the
words ‘‘precise limitations resulting from the
disability’’ from the ADA’s explanation of
‘‘interactive process.’’ As a result, the second
sentence is: ‘‘This process should identify the
known limitations and potential reasonable
accommodations that could overcome those
limitations.’’ Under the ADA, the interactive
process may begin with the individual
identifying the ‘‘precise limitations’’ of the
disability as well as identifying potential
reasonable accommodations that could
overcome those limitations.80 It is not
necessary under the PWFA that the ‘‘precise
limitation’’ be identified because the statute
makes clear that an individual is entitled to
an accommodation if the ‘‘limitation’’ is
known.
Step-by-Step Process
The Appendix to the ADA Regulations
provides an example of the steps in a
reasonable accommodation process and, for
ease of reference, the Commission includes it
below with minor changes reflecting the
PWFA’s requirement to provide reasonable
accommodations for known limitations.81 A
covered entity may use these steps and its
established ADA-related processes to address
requests for reasonable accommodations for
workers under PWFA. As with the ADA, a
covered entity should respond expeditiously
to a request for reasonable accommodation
and act promptly to provide the reasonable
accommodation.82
When an employee with a known
limitation has requested a reasonable
accommodation regarding the performance of
the job, the covered entity, using a problemsolving approach, should:
a. Analyze the particular job involved and
determine its purpose and essential
functions;
b. Consult with the employee with a
known limitation to ascertain what kind of
accommodation is necessary given the
known limitation;
c. In consultation with the employee with
the known limitation, identify potential
accommodations and assess the effectiveness
each would have in enabling the employee to
perform the essential functions of the
position. If the employee’s limitation means
that they are temporarily unable to perform
one or more essential functions of the
position, the parties must also consider
79 29 CFR 1630.2(o)(3).
80 Id.
81 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
82 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 10.
Following the steps laid out for the interactive
process is not a defense to liability if the employer
fails to provide a reasonable accommodation that it
could have provided absent undue hardship.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
whether suspending the performance of one
or more essential functions may be a part of
the reasonable accommodation if the known
limitation is temporary in nature and the
employee could perform the essential
function(s) in the near future (within
generally forty weeks); and
d. Consider the preference of the employee
to be accommodated and select and
implement the accommodation that is most
appropriate for both the employee and the
covered entity.83
Steps (b)—(d) outlined above can be
adapted and applied to requests for
reasonable accommodations related to the
application process and to benefits and
privileges of employment. In those situations,
in step (c), the consideration should be how
to enable the applicant with a known
limitation to be considered for the position
in question or how to provide an employee
with a known limitation with the ability to
enjoy equal benefits and privileges of
employment.
In many instances, the appropriate
reasonable accommodation may be obvious
to either or both the employer and the
employee with the known limitation, such
that it may not be necessary to proceed in
this step-by-step fashion. Although covered
entities are cautioned that under 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(2) and § 1636.4(b) they cannot
unilaterally require a worker with a
limitation to accept a specific
accommodation, the step-by-step approach
may not be necessary when, for example, a
pregnant worker requests certain
modifications such as allowing the employee
to drink water regularly during the workday,
additional restroom breaks, modifications in
policies regarding sitting or standing, or
modifications in polices regarding eating or
drinking. These requested modifications will
virtually always be found to be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship and are therefore unlikely to
require significant discussion in the
interactive process, and there may be other
accommodations that are equally easy to
provide. However, in some instances, neither
the employee or applicant requesting the
accommodation, nor the covered entity, may
be able to readily identify an appropriate
accommodation. For example, an applicant
needing an accommodation may not know
enough about the equipment used by the
covered entity or the exact nature of the work
site to suggest an appropriate
accommodation. Likewise, the covered entity
may not know enough about the employee’s
known limitation and its effect on the
performance of the job to suggest an
appropriate accommodation. In these
situations, the steps above may be helpful. In
addition, parties may consult outside
resources such State or local entities, nonprofit organizations, or the Job
Accommodation Network (JAN) for ideas
regarding potential reasonable
accommodations.84
83 See 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
84 The Job Accommodation Network (JAN)
provides free assistance regarding workplace
accommodation issues. See generally Job
Accommodation Network, https://askjan.org/ (last
visited July 28, 2023).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

Failure To Engage in Interactive Process
Failing to engage in the interactive process,
in and of itself, is not a violation of the
PWFA just as it is not a violation of the ADA.
However, a covered entity’s failure to initiate
or participate in the interactive process with
the employee or applicant after receiving a
request for reasonable accommodation could
result in liability if the employee or applicant
does not receive a reasonable accommodation
even though one is available that would not
have posed an undue hardship.85 Relatedly,
an employee’s unilateral withdrawal from or
refusal to participate in the interactive
process can constitute sufficient grounds for
denying the reasonable accommodation.
1636.3(l) Supporting Documentation
In determining when and what types of
documentation a covered entity may request
of an employee or applicant to support their
request for a reasonable accommodation, the
Commission is guided by existing rules
under the ADA, differences between the
relevant statutory provisions of the ADA and
the PWFA, and the recognition that
accommodations under the PWFA may be
small, temporary modifications that may not
always lend themselves to medical
documentation.
First, and most importantly, a covered
entity is not required to seek supporting
documentation from a worker who seeks an
accommodation under the PWFA. For
example, under the ADA, an employer may
simply discuss with the employee or
applicant the nature of the limitation and the
need for an accommodation; 86 the same is
true under the PWFA, and this approach is
entirely consistent with the PWFA’s
emphasis on the importance of the
interactive process as described in
§ 1636.3(k).
Additionally, the Commission notes that
pregnant workers may experience limitations
and, therefore, require accommodations,
before they have had any medical
appointments. For example, some workers
may experience morning sickness and nausea
early in their pregnancies and need
accommodations such as later start times,
breaks, or telework.
The Commission further recognizes that it
may be difficult for a pregnant employee to
obtain an immediate appointment with a
health care provider early in a pregnancy. For
example, according to one study, almost a
quarter of women did not receive prenatal
care during their first trimester, and 12% of
births take place in counties with limited or
no access to maternity care.87 Further, even
85 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 10.
86 Id. at Question 6.
87 Medical care often is not available or
immediately obtained early in a pregnancy. See,
e.g., Joyce A. Martin et al., Ctrs. for Disease Control,
Births in the United States, 2019 2 (2020), https://
www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/databriefs/db387-H.pdf
(indicating that in 2019, almost 23% of women who
gave birth did not receive prenatal care during the
first trimester); Christina Brigance et al., March of
Dimes, Nowhere to Go: Maternity Care Deserts
Across the U.S. 4 (2022), https://
www.marchofdimes.org/research/maternity-caredeserts-report.aspx (reporting that approximately 12

PO 00000

Frm 00075

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54787

for those who have access to medical care,
known limitations may develop between
scheduled medical appointments, such that
requiring documentation in those situations
would increase the cost to the worker and
may require them to take additional leave in
order to obtain the documentation. Therefore,
consistent with the purposes of the PWFA,
the Commission encourages employers who
choose to require documentation, when that
is permitted under this regulation, to grant
interim accommodations as a best practice if
an employee indicates that they have tried to
obtain documentation but there is a delay in
obtaining it, and the documentation will be
provided at a later date. For example, if a
pregnant employee requests an
accommodation for a pregnancy-related
limitation in lifting, which may involve the
temporary suspension of an essential
function, but the employee will not be able
to provide a note from a health care
practitioner for several weeks, the employer
should consider providing an interim
reasonable accommodation.88
If a covered entity decides to require
supporting documentation, it is only
permitted to do so under the rule if it is
reasonable to require documentation under
the circumstances for the covered entity to
determine whether to grant the
accommodation. When requiring
documentation is reasonable, the employer is
also limited to requiring documentation that
itself is reasonable. The preamble, rule, and
appendix set out examples of when it would
not be reasonable for the employer to require
documentation. The rule also defines
‘‘reasonable documentation’’ as
documentation that describes or confirms (1)
the physical or mental condition; (2) that it
is related to, affected by, or arising out of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions; and (3) that a change or
adjustment at work is needed for that reason.
As explained below, and set forth at
§ 1636.4(a)(3), an employer may not defend
the denial of an accommodation under 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) based on the lack of
documentation if its request for
documentation does not comport with the
rule. In these situations, the worker will have
met the requirements of § 1636.3(d)(3), and
the employer will have sufficient information
percent of births in the United States occur in
counties with limited or no access to maternity
care); American Pregnancy Association, Your First
Prenatal Visit, https://americanpregnancy.org/
healthy-pregnancy/planning/first-prenatal-visit/
(last visited Apr. 3, 2023) (stating that the first
prenatal visit for individuals who did not meet with
their health care provider pre-pregnancy is
generally around 8 weeks after their last menstrual
period); University of Utah Health, Pregnancy—
First Trimester, Weeks 1–13, https://
healthcare.utah.edu/womenshealth/pregnancybirth/1st-trimester (last visited Apr. 3, 2023) (stating
that doctors recommend scheduling the first
obstetric appointment between the 8th and 10th
week of pregnancy); Boston Medical Center, Newly
Pregnant?, https://www.bmc.org/newly-pregnant
(last visited Apr. 3, 2023) (stating that the first
prenatal appointment will be scheduled between
the 8th and 12th weeks of pregnancy).
88 See Best Practices State Government, supra
note 58. See also infra discussion on Interim
Reasonable Accommodations.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54788

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

regarding the known limitation and the need
for accommodation. Further, requests for
documentation that violate the rule may be
a violation of the prohibition on retaliation
and coercion in 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), as set
forth in §§ 1636.5(f)(1)(iv), (v) and (f)(2)(iv),
(v) because they may deter workers from
seeking accommodations.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(l)(1) Reasonable To Require
Documentation Under the Circumstances
Under the rule, a covered entity may
require documentation only if it is reasonable
to do so under the circumstances for the
covered entity to decide whether to grant the
accommodation. The regulation provides
several examples of when it would not be
reasonable for the employer to require
documentation.
First, it is not reasonable for the employer
to require documentation when both the
limitation and the need for reasonable
accommodation are obvious.89 For example,
when an obviously pregnant 90 worker states
or confirms they are pregnant and asks for a
different size uniform or related safety gear,
both the limitation and the need for the
accommodation are obvious, and ‘‘known’’
under the statute, and the employer may not
require supporting documentation. If the
pregnancy is obvious, and the worker states
or confirms that they are pregnant, but the
limitation related to the pregnancy or
parameters of a potential accommodation are
not, the employer may only request
documentation relevant to the
accommodation. For example, if a worker
who is obviously pregnant, states or confirms
that they are pregnant, and asks to avoid
lifting heavy objects, it may be reasonable for
the employer to request documentation about
the limitation such as the extent of the lifting
restriction and its expected duration, but not
about the pregnancy itself. Similarly, if an
obviously pregnant employee requests the
reasonable accommodation of leave related to
childbirth and recovery and states or
confirms that they are pregnant it may be
reasonable for the employer to require
documentation regarding the amount of time
the worker anticipates needing to recover
from childbirth, but not reasonable to require
documentation of the pregnancy itself.
Second, when the employee or applicant
has already provided the employer with
sufficient information to substantiate that the
worker has a known limitation and needs a
change or adjustment at work, it is not
reasonable for the employer to require
documentation. If a worker has already
provided documentation stating that because
89 This is similar to the ADA under which
requesting documentation when the disability and
the need for the accommodation are obvious or
otherwise already known would violate the
prohibition on disability-related inquires without a
business justification. Enforcement Guidance on
Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical
Examinations of Employees Under the ADA,
Question 5 (2000), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-disability-relatedinquiries-and-medical-examinations-employees
[hereinafter Enforcement Guidance on DisabilityRelated Inquires].
90 Early or initial physical indications of
pregnancy may not be sufficient to make it obvious
to an employer that an employee is pregnant.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

of their recent cesarean section, they should
not lift over 20 pounds for two months, the
employer may not require further
documentation during those two months
because the employee has already provided
the employer with sufficient information to
substantiate that they have a limitation and
need a change at work.
A third example of when it is not
reasonable for an employer to require
documentation is when a worker at any time
during their pregnancy states or confirms that
they are pregnant and seeks one of the
following accommodations: (1) carrying
water and drinking, as needed; (2) taking
additional restroom breaks; (3) sitting, for
those whose work requires standing, and
standing, for those whose work requires
sitting; and (4) breaks, as needed, to eat and
drink. It is not reasonable to require
documentation, beyond self-attestation, when
a worker is pregnant and seeks one of the
four listed modifications because these are a
small set of commonly sought
accommodations that are widely known to be
needed during an uncomplicated pregnancy
and where documentation would not be
easily obtainable or necessary. As noted
above, particularly early in pregnancy,
employees and applicants are less likely to
have sought or been able to obtain an
appointment with a health care provider for
their pregnancy. Further, they may not be
able to obtain an appointment with a health
care provider repeatedly on short notice for
every limitation, as each becomes apparent.
The Commission notes that this position is
consistent with the overarching goal of the
PWFA to assist workers affected by
pregnancy to remain on the job by providing
them with simple accommodations quickly.
A fourth example of when it is not
reasonable to require documentation is when
the limitation for which an accommodation
is needed involves lactation. Usually,
beginning around or shortly after birth,
lactation occurs. As the initiation of lactation
around birth is nearly universal, the
Commission considers the fact of
breastfeeding obvious, such that it will not be
reasonable for an employer to require
documentation regarding lactation or
pumping. Pragmatically, the Commission
notes that health care providers may not be
able to provide documentation regarding
whether a worker is pumping, nor the types
of accommodations needed in order to pump
breast milk.91 Of course, not all workers can
or choose to breastfeed; those who do elect
to breastfeed do so for widely varying lengths
of time. Although the rule states that it is
generally not reasonable for an employer to
require supporting documentation for
lactation or pumping, an employer will not
violate the rule simply by asking the
employee whether they require an
appropriate place to express breastmilk while
at a worksite. Employee confirmation—or a
simple request to pump at work—is sufficient
confirmation.
If the request for supporting
documentation was not reasonable under the
91 See supra note 67, for discussion of the PUMP
Act and the types of accommodations that may be
requested with regard to pumping.

PO 00000

Frm 00076

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

circumstances for the covered entity to
determine whether to grant the
accommodation, a covered entity cannot
defend the denial of an accommodation
based on the lack of documentation provided
by the worker, as set forth in § 1636.4(a)(3).
Further, § 1636.5(f) states that it could violate
the retaliation and coercion provisions of the
PWFA if a covered entity requires the
submission of supporting documentation that
is not reasonable under the circumstances to
determine whether to grant the
accommodation because, for example, (1)
both the limitation and the need for
reasonable accommodation are obvious; (2)
the employee or applicant already has
provided the employer with sufficient
information to substantiate that the
individual has a known limitation and needs
a change or adjustment at work; (3) a
pregnant worker is seeking one of the
modifications listed at 1636.3(j)(4); or (4) the
accommodation requested involves lactation.
Example 1636.3 #36/Documentation: An
employer adopts a policy requiring everyone
who requests a reasonable accommodation to
provide medical documentation in support of
the request. Cora, a production worker who
is 8 months pregnant, requests additional
bathroom breaks, and the employer applies
the policy to her, refusing to provide the
accommodation until she submits medical
documentation. Cora therefore makes a
medical appointment that she does not need
and brings in documentation to establish that
she is pregnant and has a physical condition
that requires additional bathroom breaks. The
employer grants the requested
accommodation shortly before Cora gives
birth. Despite the fact that the
accommodation was granted, this employer
may have violated the PWFA, 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(a) and/or 2000gg–2(f).
Example 1636.3 #37/Documentation: An
employer adopts a policy requiring everyone
who requests a reasonable accommodation to
provide medical documentation in support of
the request. Fourteen months after giving
birth, Alex wants to continue to pump
breastmilk at work, explains that to her
supervisor, and asks, as a reasonable
accommodation, for breaks to pump and that
the room that is provided have a chair, a
table, and access to electricity and running
water. Alex’s employer refuses to provide the
accommodations unless Alex provides
supporting documentation from her health
care provider. Alex cannot provide the
information, so she stops pumping. The
employer cannot use the lack of
documentation as a defense to the denial of
the accommodation because documentation
was not reasonable under the circumstances
for the employer to determine whether to
grant to accommodation, as set forth in
§ 1636.4(a)(3).
1636.3(l)(2) Reasonable Documentation
When it is reasonable to require
documentation under the circumstances for
the covered entity to determine whether to
grant the accommodation, the covered entity
is permitted to require reasonable
documentation, including from a health care
provider. The rule defines ‘‘reasonable
documentation’’ as documentation that

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
describes or confirms: (1) the physical or
mental condition; (2) that it is related to,
affected by, or arising out of pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions; and
(3) that a change or adjustment at work is
needed for that reason. For example, if an
employee asks for leave as a reasonable
accommodation to attend therapy
appointments due to anxiety early in the
employee’s pregnancy, the employer could,
but is not required to, ask for documentation
confirming that there is a physical or mental
condition that is related to, affected by, or
arising out of pregnancy, and information
about how frequent and long the leave would
need to be.
Adopting the longstanding approach under
the ADA, § 1636.4(f)(1)(v) and (f)(2)(v)
explain that if an employee or applicant
provides documentation that is sufficient,
continued efforts by the covered entity to
require that the individual provide more
documentation could be a violation of the
PWFA’s prohibitions on retaliation and
coercion. However, if a covered entity
requests additional information based on a
good faith belief that the documentation the
employee submitted is insufficient, it would
not be liable for retaliation or coercion.92

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.3(l)(3) Appropriate Health Care
Provider To Provide Documentation
If the covered entity meets the
requirements laid out above to request
documentation and does so, the covered
entity may request documentation from an
appropriate health care provider in the
particular situation. An appropriate provider
may vary depending on the situation;
paragraph (l)(3) contains a non-exhaustive
list of possible health care providers that is
based on the non-exhaustive list for the
ADA.93
The Commission does not believe that it
will be practical or necessary for a covered
entity to request or require that an employee
be examined by a health care provider of the
covered entity’s choosing based on the
PWFA’s lower threshold for requiring
reasonable accommodations, the temporary
duration of PWFA accommodations, and the
minimal nature of at least some of the most
common reasonable accommodations
associated with general limitations of
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
1636.3(l)(4) Confidentiality
The PWFA does not include a provision
specifically requiring covered entities to
maintain the confidentiality of medical
information obtained in support of
accommodation requests under the PWFA.
However, applicants, employees, and former
employees covered by the PWFA also are
covered by the ADA.94 Under the ADA,
covered entities are required to keep medical
documentation of applicants, employees, and
92 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at n.33; Enforcement
Guidance on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra
note 89, at Question 11.
93 See Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 6.
94 See 42 U.S.C. 12111(5)(a) & 4 (ADA); 42 U.S.C.
2000gg(1)(B)(i) & (3)(A).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

former employees confidential, with limited
exceptions.95 These ADA rules on keeping
medical information confidential apply to all
medical information, including medical
information voluntarily provided as part of
the reasonable accommodation process, and,
therefore, include medical information
obtained under the PWFA. Moreover, as
explained in § 1636.5(f), an employer’s
intentional disclosure of medical information
obtained through PWFA’s reasonable
accommodation process may violate the
PWFA’s prohibition on retaliation and/or
coercion.
Section 1636.4 Prohibited Practices
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1 sets out five possible
violations involving the provision of
reasonable accommodations.
1636.4(a) Failing To Provide Reasonable
Accommodation
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) prohibits a covered
entity from failing to make a reasonable
accommodation for a qualified employee or
applicant with a known limitation unless the
covered entity can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an undue
hardship on the operation of its business.
This provision of the PWFA uses the same
language as the ADA, and the rule likewise
uses the language from the corresponding
ADA regulation, replacing references to
‘‘individual with a disability’’ and similar
terms with ‘‘employee with a known
limitation’’ and similar terms.96 Because 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) uses the same operative
language as the ADA, the Commission
proposes interpreting it in a similar manner.
This section is violated when a covered
entity denies a reasonable accommodation to
a qualified employee or applicant with a
known limitation, absent undue hardship. As
under the ADA, however, a covered entity
does not violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1)
merely by refusing to engage in the
interactive process; for a violation, there also
must have been a reasonable accommodation
that the employer could have provided
absent undue hardship.
1636.4(a)(1) Unnecessary Delay in
Responding to a Request for a Reasonable
Accommodation
Given that pregnancy-related limitations
are frequently temporary, a delay in
providing an accommodation may mean that
the period necessitating the accommodation
could pass without action simply because of
the delay.97 As with the ADA, an
95 29 CFR 1630.14(b) & (c); Enforcement Guidance
on Disability-Related Inquiries, supra note 89, at
text accompanying nn.9–10; EEOC, Enforcement
Guidance: Preemployment Disability-Related
Questions and Medical Examinations, at text
accompanying n.6 (1995), https://www.eeoc.gov/
laws/guidance/enforcement-guidancepreemployment-disability-related-questions-andmedical.
96 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(A); 29 CFR 1630.9(a).
97 See, e.g., Long Over Due, supra note 76, at 96
(statement of Rep. Suzanne Bonamici) (praising the
PWFA because it would allow pregnant workers to
get accommodations without waiting months or
years; 168 Cong. Rec. S10,081 (daily ed. Dec. 22,
2022) (statement of Sen. Robert Casey, Jr.) (noting
that ‘‘pregnant workers need immediate relief to
remain healthy and on the job’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00077

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54789

unnecessary delay in responding to a request
for a reasonable accommodation may result
in a violation of the PWFA if the delay
results in a failure to provide a reasonable
accommodation.98 This can be true even if
the reasonable accommodation is eventually
provided, when the delay was unnecessary.
The factors set out in § 1636.4(a)(1) include
the same factors that are used when
determining if a delay in the provision of a
reasonable accommodation violates the
ADA,99 and the regulation adds two new
factors. First, in determining whether a delay
in providing a reasonable accommodation
was unnecessary, the question of whether
providing the accommodation was simple or
complex is a factor to be considered. There
are certain modifications, set forth in
§ 1636.3(j)(4), that will virtually always be
found to be reasonable accommodations that
do not impose an undue hardship: (1)
allowing a pregnant employee to carry and
drink water, as needed; (2) allowing a
pregnant employee additional restroom
breaks; (3) allowing a pregnant employee
whose work requires standing to sit and
whose work requires sitting to stand; and (4)
allowing a pregnant employee breaks to eat
and drink, as needed. If there is a delay in
providing these accommodations, it will
virtually always be found to be unnecessary
because of the presumption that these
modifications will be reasonable
accommodations that do not impose an
undue hardship. Second, another factor to be
considered when determining if a delay in
providing a reasonable accommodation was
unnecessary is whether the covered entity
offered the employee or applicant an interim
reasonable accommodation during the
interactive process or while waiting for the
covered entity’s response. The provision of
such an interim accommodation will
decrease the likelihood that an unnecessary
delay will be found. Under this factor, leave
is not considered an appropriate interim
reasonable accommodation if there is another
interim reasonable accommodation that
would not cause an undue hardship and
would allow the employee to continue
working, unless the employee selects or
requests leave as an interim reasonable
accommodation.100
1636.4(a)(2) Employee or Applicant
Declining a Reasonable Accommodation
The rule provides, as in the ADA, that if
an employee declines a reasonable
accommodation, and without it the employee
cannot perform one or more essential
functions of the position, then the employee
will no longer be considered qualified.101
However, because the PWFA allows for the
temporary suspension of one or more
essential functions in certain circumstances,
an employer must also consider whether one
or more essential functions can be
temporarily suspended pursuant to the
PWFA before a determination is made
98 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodation, supra note 4, at Question 10, n.38.
99 Id.
100 The restriction on using leave as an interim
accommodation is based on 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4).
101 See 29 CFR 1630.9(d).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54790

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

pursuant to this section that the employee is
not qualified.
1636.4(a)(3) Covered Entity Denying a
Reasonable Accommodation Due to Lack of
Supporting Documentation
If the request for documentation was not
reasonable under the circumstances for the
covered entity to determine whether to grant
the accommodation, a covered entity cannot
defend the denial of an accommodation
based on the lack of documentation provided
by the worker.
1636.4(a)(4) Choosing Among Possible
Accommodations
Similar to the ADA, if there is more than
one effective accommodation, the employee’s
or applicant’s preference should be given
primary consideration. However, the
employer providing the accommodation has
the ultimate discretion to choose between
potential reasonable accommodations and
may choose, for example, the less expensive
accommodation or the accommodation that is
easier for it to provide, or generally the
accommodation that imposes the least
hardship.102 In the situation where the
employer is choosing between reasonable
accommodations and does not provide the
accommodation that is the worker’s preferred
accommodation, the employer does not have
to show that it is an undue hardship to
provide the worker’s preferred
accommodation.
A covered entity’s ‘‘ultimate discretion’’ to
choose a reasonable accommodation is
limited by certain other considerations. First,
the accommodation must provide the
individual with a known limitation with an
equal employment opportunity, meaning an
opportunity to attain the same level of
performance, or to enjoy the same level of
benefits and privileges of employment as are
available to the average similarly situated
employee without a known limitation.103
Thus, if there is more than one
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship, but one of them does not

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

102 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9.
103 29 CFR part 1630 app. 1630.9 (providing that
a reasonable accommodation ‘‘should provide the
individual with a disability with an equal
employment opportunity. Equal employment
opportunity means an opportunity to attain the
same level of performance, or to enjoy the same
level of benefits and privileges of employment as
are available to the average similarly situated
employee without a disability.’’); 29 CFR part 1630
app. 1630.2(o) (explaining that reassignment should
be to a position with equivalent pay, status, etc., if
possible); see also Enforcement Guidance on
Reasonable Accommodation, supra note 4, at text
following n.80 (‘‘However, if both the employer and
the employee voluntarily agree that transfer is
preferable to remaining in the current position with
some form of reasonable accommodation, then the
employer may transfer the employee.’’); Cf. EEOC,
Compliance Manual on Religious Discrimination,
12–IV.3 (2021) (stating that in the context of a
religious accommodation, an accommodation
would not be reasonable ‘‘if it requires the
employee to accept a reduction in pay rate or some
other loss of a benefit or privilege of employment
and there is an alternative accommodation that does
not do so.’’) https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
section-12-religious-discrimination [hereinafter
Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual].

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

provide the employee with an equal
employment opportunity, the employer must
choose the one that provides the worker with
equal employment opportunity.104
Depending on the facts, selecting the
accommodation that does not provide equal
opportunity could violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(1), 2000gg–(1)(5) or 2000gg–2(f).105
Second, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) prohibits a
covered entity from requiring a qualified
employee or applicant affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions to
accept an accommodation other than a
reasonable accommodation arrived at
through the interactive process. Third, 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4) prohibits a covered entity
from requiring a qualified employee with a
known limitation to take leave if there is a
reasonable accommodation that will allow
the employee to continue to work, absent
undue hardship. Fourth, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
1(5) prohibits a covered entity that is, for
example, selecting from an array of
accommodations, all of which are effective
and do not impose an undue hardship, from
picking one that results in the covered entity
taking adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment of the employee or
applicant. Fifth, 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)
prohibits retaliation and coercion by covered
entities.
Example 1636.4 #38/Failing to Provide an
Accommodation: Yasmin’s job requires her to
travel to meet with clients. Because of her
pregnancy, she is not able to travel for three
months. She asks that she be allowed to
conduct her client meetings via video
conferencing. Although this accommodation
would allow her to perform her essential job
functions and does not impose an undue
hardship, her employer reassigns her to
smaller, local accounts. Being assigned only
to these accounts limits Yasmin’s ability to
compete for promotions and bonuses as she
had in the past.
This could be a violation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(1), because Yasmin is denied an
equal opportunity to compete for promotions
and is thus denied a reasonable
accommodation. The employer’s actions
could also violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) and
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f), or Title VII’s
prohibition against pregnancy
discrimination.
1636.4(b) Requiring Employee or Applicant
To Accept an Accommodation
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) prohibits a covered
entity from requiring an employee or
applicant to accept an accommodation other
than any reasonable accommodation arrived
at through the interactive process. This
provision responds to concerns that some
employers may unilaterally curtail what a
pregnant worker can do in the mistaken
belief that the worker needs some type of
help.106 Pursuant to this provision in the
104 Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable
Accommodations, supra note 4, Question 9
Example B.
105 Depending on the facts, this could be a
violation of Title VII’s prohibition on sex
discrimination as well.
106 Cf. EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Unlawful
Disparate Treatment of Workers with Caregiving
Responsibilities II.A.3 (2007), https://

PO 00000

Frm 00078

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

PWFA and the rule, a covered entity cannot
force an employee or applicant to accept an
accommodation such as light duty or a
temporary transfer, or delay of an
examination that is part of the application
process, without engaging in the interactive
process, even if the covered entity’s
motivation is concern for the applicant’s or
employee’s health or pregnancy.
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2) does not require that
the employee or applicant have a limitation,
known or not; thus, a violation of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(2) could occur if a covered entity
notices that an employee or applicant is
pregnant and decides, without engaging in
the interactive process with the employee or
applicant, that the employee or applicant
needs a particular accommodation, and
unilaterally requires the employee or
applicant to accept that accommodation,
even though the employee or applicant has
not requested it and can perform the essential
functions of the job without it. For example,
this provision could be violated if an
employment agency, without discussing the
situation with the candidate, decided that a
candidate recovering from a miscarriage
needed an accommodation in the form of not
being sent to certain jobs that the agency
viewed as too physical, or if an employer
decided to excuse a pregnant worker from
overtime as an accommodation, without
discussing it with them.107
Additionally, a violation could occur if a
covered entity receives a request for a
reasonable accommodation and unilaterally
imposes an accommodation that was not
requested without engaging in the interactive
process.
Example 1636.4 #39: Kia, a restaurant
server, is pregnant. She asks for additional
breaks during her shifts as her pregnancy
progresses because she feels tired, and her
feet are swelling. Her employer, without
engaging in the interactive process with Kia,
directs Kia to take host shifts for the
remainder of her pregnancy, because she can
sit for long periods during the shift. The
employer has violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(2)
and § 1636.4(b) of the rule, because it
required Kia to accept an accommodation
other than one arrived at through the
interactive process, even if Kia’s earnings did
not decrease and her terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment were not harmed.
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-unlawful-disparate-treatment-workerscaregiving-responsibilities (describing situations in
which employers incorrectly assume based on
stereotypes that workers with caregiving
responsibilities need a change to their workload or
work environment); see also UAW v. Johnson
Controls, 499 U.S. 187 (1991) (striking down
employer’s fetal protection policy that limited the
opportunities of women); Long Over Due, supra
note 76, at 192 (written answers of Dina Bakst, CoFounder & Co-President, A Better Balance)
(explaining that employers have been known to
unilaterally cut a worker’s hours or stop a worker
from working late in an attempt to ‘‘help’’ the
employee or because the employer felt sorry for the
worker, even though an employee did not ask for
such accommodation and did not need it).
107 These actions also could violate Title VII’s
prohibition of disparate treatment based on sex. See
Enforcement Guidance on Pregnancy
Discrimination, supra note 11, at I.B.1.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules
The Commission recognizes that the relief in
this situation may be limited to requiring the
employer to engage in the interactive process
with the employee.
By contrast, if the host shift does not
provide Kia with equal terms, conditions,
and privileges of employment (e.g., Kia’s
wages decrease or Kia no longer can earn
tips), the covered entity also may have
violated 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) (requiring
reasonable accommodation absent undue
hardship); 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) (prohibiting
adverse action in terms, benefits, or
privileges of employment); or 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) (prohibiting retaliation and
coercion) (implemented in the rule at
§ 1636.4(a), (e) and § 1636.5(f)).
Finally, this provision also could be
violated if a covered entity has a rule that
requires all pregnant workers to stop a
certain function—such as traveling—
automatically, without any evidence that the
particular worker is unable to perform that
function.

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

1636.4(c) Denying Opportunities
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(3) prohibits a covered
entity from denying employment
opportunities to a qualified employee or
applicant with a known limitation if the
denial is based on the need of the covered
entity to make reasonable accommodations to
the known limitations of the employee or
applicant. Thus, an employee’s or applicant’s
known limitation and need for a reasonable
accommodation cannot be part of the covered
entity’s decision regarding hiring, discharge,
promotion, or other employment decisions,
unless the reasonable accommodation would
impose an undue hardship on the covered
entity. This provision in the PWFA uses
language similar to that of the ADA, and the
rule likewise uses the language similar to the
corresponding ADA regulation.108
Additionally, the rule includes situations
where the covered entity’s decision is based
on the future possibility that a reasonable
accommodation will be needed, i.e., 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(3) prohibits a covered entity
from making a decision based on its belief
that an individual may need a reasonable
accommodation in the future even if the
individual has not asked for one. Thus, under
the rule, this prohibition would include
situations where a covered entity refuses to
hire a pregnant applicant because the
covered entity believes that the applicant
will need leave to recover from childbirth,
even if the covered entity does not know the
exact amount of leave the applicant will
require, or the applicant has not mentioned
the need for leave as a reasonable
accommodation to the covered entity. The
Commission proposes this addition to ensure
that workers are protected in situations
where the employer’s actions are based on
avoiding the provision of a reasonable
accommodation, even if one is not requested.
1636.4(d) Requiring Employee to Take Leave
Sometimes, when employees notify their
employers that they are pregnant, employers
place them on leave or direct them to use
leave.109 Workers on unpaid leave risk their
108 42 U.S.C. 12112(b)(5)(B); 29 CFR 1630.9(b).
109 H.R. Rep. No. 117–27, pt. 1, at 24.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

economic security, and workers who use
their leave—whether paid or unpaid—prior
to giving birth may not have leave when they
need it to recover from childbirth.110
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(4) seeks to limit this
practice. Under this provision, a covered
entity may not require a qualified employee
with a known limitation to take leave,
whether paid or unpaid, if another
reasonable accommodation can be provided,
absent undue hardship. In other words,
under the PWFA, an employee cannot be
forced to take leave if another reasonable
accommodation can be provided that would
not impose an undue hardship and would
allow the employee to continue to work.
Of course, this limitation does not prohibit
the provision of leave as a reasonable
accommodation if leave is the reasonable
accommodation requested or selected by the
employee, or if it is the only reasonable
accommodation that does not cause an undue
hardship. As explained above in the
preamble’s discussion of § 1636.3(h) and (i),
both paid leave (accrued, short-term
disability, or another employer benefit) and
unpaid leave are potential reasonable
accommodations under the PWFA. 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(4) and the rule merely prohibits an
employer from requiring an employee to take
leave if there is another reasonable
accommodation that would not impose an
undue hardship and would allow the
employee to remain on the job.
1636.4(e) Adverse Action on Account of
Requesting or Using a Reasonable
Accommodation
The PWFA contains overlapping
provisions that protect workers seeking or
using reasonable accommodations.
Importantly, nothing in the PWFA limits
which provision a worker may use to protect
their rights.
One of these provisions is 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5), which prohibits a covered
entity from ‘‘tak[ing] adverse action in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment
against a qualified employee on account of
the employee requesting or using a
reasonable accommodation to the known
limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions of the
employee.’’ 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) only
applies to situations involving a qualified
employee who asks for or uses a reasonable
accommodation. The protections provided by
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) are likely to have
significant overlap with 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–
2(f), which prohibits retaliation. As
explained in the discussion of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f) (§ 1636.5(f)), however, the
PWFA’s anti-retaliation provisions apply to a
broader group of employees and actions than
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) does.
The term ‘‘take adverse action’’ in 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) is not taken from Title VII
or the ADA. From the context of this
provision and the basic dictionary definitions
of the terms, this prohibits an employer from
110 Long Over Due, supra note 76, at 81 (statement
of Rep. Jahana Hayes) (explaining that she kept
working while pregnant in order to save her leave
for after childbirth).

PO 00000

Frm 00079

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54791

taking a harmful action against an
employee.111
‘‘Terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment’’ is a term from Title VII, and
the EEOC has interpreted it to encompass a
wide range of activities or practices that
occur in the workplace including, but not
limited to, discriminatory work environment
or atmosphere; duration of work (such as the
length of an employment contract, hours of
work, or attendance); work rules; job
assignments and duties; and job
advancement (such as training, support, and
performance evaluations).112 In addition, for
the purposes of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5),
‘‘terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment’’ can include hiring, discharge,
or compensation.113
Thus, this provision may be violated when,
for example, a covered entity grants a
reasonable accommodation but then
penalizes the employee.
Example 1636.4 #40: Nava took leave to
recover from childbirth as a reasonable
accommodation under the PWFA, and, as a
result, failed to meet the sales quota for that
quarter, which led to a negative performance
appraisal. The negative appraisal could be a
violation of 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) because
Nava received it due to the use of a
reasonable accommodation.
Also, an employer may violate this
provision if there is more than one
accommodation that does not impose an
undue hardship, and the employer, after the
interactive process, chooses the
accommodation that causes an adverse action
with respect to the terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment, despite the
existence of an alternative accommodation
that would not do so.
Example 1636.4 #41: Ivy asks for
additional bathroom breaks during work
because of pregnancy, including during
overtime shifts. After talking to Ivy, rather
than providing the breaks during overtime,
Ivy’s supervisor decides Ivy should simply
not work overtime, because during the
overtime shift there are fewer employees, and
the supervisor does not want to bother
figuring out coverage for Ivy, although it
would not be an undue hardship to do so. As
a result, Ivy is not assigned overtime and
loses earnings.
This conduct could violate 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–1(5) in two ways. First, Ivy’s request
for a reasonable accommodation led to an
adverse action in terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment. Second, Ivy’s use
of the accommodation of not working
overtime led to a reduction in pay, i.e., an
adverse action in terms, conditions, or
111 Adverse, Merriam-Webster.com, https://
www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/adverse
(‘‘hostile,’’ ‘‘unfavorable’’ and ‘‘harmful.’’) (last
visited June 13, 2023).
112 42 U.S.C. 2000e–2(a)(1); Compliance Manual
on Terms, Conditions, and Privileges of
Employment, supra note 40, at 613.1(a) (stating that
the language is to be read in the broadest possible
terms and providing a list of examples).
113 The PWFA’s use of the phrase ‘‘terms,
conditions, and privileges of employment’’ includes
hiring, discharge, and compensation, which are also
included within the scope of Title VII. 42 U.S.C.
2000e–2(a)(1).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54792

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

privileges of Ivy’s employment, and there
was an alternative accommodation (assigning
coverage for Ivy as needed) that would not
have done so.
Example 1636.4 #42: Leyla asks for
telework due to morning sickness. Through
the interactive process, it is determined that
both telework and a later schedule combined
with an hour rest break in the afternoon
would allow Leyla to perform the essential
functions of her job and would not impose
an undue hardship. Although Leyla prefers
telework, the employer would rather Leyla be
in the office. It would not be a violation of
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5) to offer Leyla the
schedule change/rest break instead of
telework as a reasonable accommodation.
The facts set out in examples 40 and 41
could also violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(1) and
2000gg–2(f).
As stated at the beginning of this section,
the PWFA has overlapping protections for
workers who request or use reasonable
accommodations. The Commission
emphasizes that qualified employees with
known limitations may bring actions under
any of these provisions.
Section 1636.5

Remedies and Enforcement

In crafting the PWFA remedies and
enforcement section, Congress recognized the
advisability of using the existing mechanisms
in place for redress of other forms of
employment discrimination. Thus, the
enforcement and remedies sections of the
PWFA mirror those of the statutes that
provide its definitions of covered entity and
employee (Title VII, GERA, and the
Congressional Accountability Act).
1636.5(f) Prohibition Against Retaliation

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

The anti-retaliation provisions of the
PWFA should be interpreted broadly, like
those of Title VII and the ADA, to effectuate
Congress’s broad remedial purpose in
enacting these laws.114 The protections of
these provisions extend beyond qualified
employees and applicants with known
limitations and cover activity that may not
yet have occurred, such as a circumstance in
which a covered entity threatens an
employee or applicant with termination if
they file a charge or requires an employee or
applicant to sign an agreement that prohibits
such individual from filing a charge with the
EEOC.115
114 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation
and Related Issues II.A, A.1 (2016), https://
www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-retaliation-and-related-issues [hereinafter
Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation] (describing
the broad protection of the participation clause); id.
at A.2, A.2.a (describing the broad protection of the
opposition clause).
115 EEOC, Enforcement Guidance on NonWaivable Employee Rights under EEOC Enforced
Statutes II (1997), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/
guidance/enforcement-guidance-non-waivableemployee-rights-under-eeoc-enforced-statutes
(‘‘[P]romises not to file a charge or participate in an
EEOC proceeding are null and void as a matter of
public policy. Agreements extracting such promises
from employees may also amount to separate and
discrete violations of the anti-retaliation provisions
of the civil rights statutes.’’).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

1636.5(f)(1) Prohibition Against Retaliation
The regulation reiterates the statutory
prohibition against retaliation from 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f)(1), which uses the same language
as Title VII and the ADA.116 Thus, the types
of conduct prohibited and the standard for
determining what constitutes retaliatory
conduct under the PWFA are the same as
they are under Title VII. Accordingly, this
provision prohibits discrimination against
individuals who engage in protected activity,
which includes ‘‘ ‘participating’ in an EEO
process or ‘opposing’ discrimination.’’ 117
Title VII’s anti-retaliation provision is broad
and protects an individual from conduct,
whether related to employment or not, that
a reasonable person would have found
‘‘materially adverse,’’ meaning that the action
‘‘well might have dissuaded a reasonable
worker from making or supporting a charge
of discrimination.’’ 118 The same
interpretation applies to the PWFA’s antiretaliation provision.119
The rule contains five other provisions
based on the statutory language and
established anti-retaliation concepts under
Title VII and the ADA.
First, like Title VII and the ADA, the rule
protects employees, applicants, and former
employees because 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1)
protects ‘‘employees,’’ not ‘‘qualified
employees with a known limitation.’’
Therefore, the rule states that an employee,
applicant, or former employee need not
establish that they have a known limitation
or are qualified under the PWFA to bring a
claim under 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f)(1).120
Second, the rule explains that, consistent
with the ADA and Title VII, a request for a
reasonable accommodation under the PWFA
constitutes protected activity, and therefore
retaliation for such a request is prohibited.121
Third, the rule provides that an employee,
applicant, or former employee does not have
to actually be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under this section for the
retaliation to be actionable.122 Fourth, as
116 42 U.S.C. 2000e–3(a); 42 U.S.C. 12203(a).
117 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 114, at II.A; see also id. at II.A.1–A.2
(describing protected activity under Title VII’s antiretaliation clause).
118 Burlington N. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. White, 548
U.S. 53, 68 (2006) (internal citations and quotations
omitted).
119 All retaliatory conduct under Title VII (and
the ADA), including retaliation that takes the form
of harassment, is evaluated under the legal standard
for retaliation. See Enforcement Guidance on
Retaliation, supra note 114, at II.B.3.
120 See Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation,
supra note 114, at III (recognizing that under the
ADA, individuals need not establish that they are
covered under the statute’s substantive
discrimination provisions in order to be protected
against retaliation); id. at II.A.3; see also Robinson
v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 346 (1997) (holding
that Title VII protects former employees from
retaliation).
121 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 114, at II.A.2.e and Example 10.
122 Id. at II.B.1, B.2 (stating that the retaliation
‘‘standard can be satisfied even if the individual
was not in fact deterred’’ and that ‘‘[i]f the
employer’s action would be reasonably likely to
deter protected activity, it can be challenged as
retaliation even if it falls short of its goal’’).

PO 00000

Frm 00080

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

explained in the discussion of the
documentation that can be required in
support of a request for reasonable
accommodation, the rule notes that it may
violate this section for a covered entity to
require documentation when it is not
reasonable under the circumstances to
determine whether to provide the
accommodation. Finally, the rule explains
that when an employee or applicant provides
sufficient documentation to describe the
relevant limitation and need for
accommodation, continued efforts on the
covered entity’s part to obtain documentation
violates the retaliation prohibition unless the
covered entity has a good faith belief that the
submitted documentation is insufficient.
1636.5(f)(2) Prohibition Against Coercion
The PWFA’s anti-coercion provision uses
the same language as the ADA’s interference
provision, with one minor variation in the
title of the section.123 Similar to the ADA, the
scope of the PWFA coercion provision is
broader than the anti-retaliation provision; it
reaches those instances ‘‘when conduct does
not meet the ‘materially adverse’ standard
required for retaliation.’’ 124
The rule follows the language of 42 U.S.C.
2000gg–2(f)(2) and protects ‘‘individuals,’’
not ‘‘qualified employees with a known
limitation under the PWFA.’’ Thus, the rule
specifies that, consistent with the ADA’s
interference provisions, the individual need
not be an employee, applicant, or former
employee and need not establish that they
have a known limitation or that they are
qualified (as those terms are defined in the
PWFA) to bring a claim for coercion under
the PWFA.125
The purpose of this provision is to ensure
that workers are free to avail themselves of
the protections of the statute. Thus,
consistent with the ADA regulations for the
same provision, the rule adds ‘‘harass’’ to the
list of prohibitions, as harassment may be a
method to coerce a worker into not availing
themselves of their PWFA rights.126 The rule
also states that an individual does not, in
fact, have to be deterred from exercising or
enjoying rights under this section for the
coercion to be actionable.127
The rule contains three examples of actions
that could be violations. First, the rule states
that it prohibits coercion, intimidation,
threats, harassment, or interference because
an individual, including an employee,
applicant, or former employee, has asked for
a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA.
Second, the rule provides that coercion
could include situations in which the
123 The ADA uses the term ‘‘Interference,
coercion, or intimidation’’ to preface the
prohibition against interference (42 U.S.C.
12203(b)), whereas the PWFA uses ‘‘Prohibition
against coercion.’’ The language of the prohibitions
is otherwise identical.
124 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 114, at III.
125 Id.
126 29 CFR 1630.12(b).
127 Enforcement Guidance on Retaliation, supra
note 114, at II.B.1–B.2 (noting that actions can be
challenged as retaliatory even if the person was not
deterred from engaging in protected activity).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

covered entity requires documentation in
support of a request for reasonable
accommodation when it is not reasonable
under the circumstances to determine
whether to provide the accommodation.
Third, the rule states that a covered entity
that has sufficient information regarding the
known limitation and the need for reasonable
accommodation but continues to require
additional information or documentation
violates the anti-coercion provision unless
the covered entity has a good faith belief that
the documentation is insufficient.
Some other examples of coercion include:
• coercing an individual to relinquish or
forgo an accommodation to which they are
otherwise entitled;
• intimidating an applicant from
requesting an accommodation for the
application process by indicating that such a
request will result in the applicant not being
hired;
• issuing a policy or requirement that
purports to limit an employee’s or applicant’s
rights to invoke PWFA protections (e.g., a
fixed leave policy that states ‘‘no exceptions
will be made for any reason’’);
• interfering with a former employee’s
right to file a PWFA lawsuit against a former
employer by stating that a negative job
reference will be given to prospective
employers if the suit is filed; and
• subjecting an employee to unwarranted
discipline, demotion, or other adverse
treatment because they assisted a coworker in
requesting a reasonable accommodation.128
Examples of Retaliation and/or Coercion
Actions that the courts or the Commission
have previously determined may qualify as
retaliation or coercion under Title VII or the
ADA may qualify under the PWFA as well.
Depending on the facts, a covered entity’s
retaliatory action for activity protected under
the PWFA may violate 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5),
2000gg–2(f)(1) and/or 2000gg–2(f)(2), as
implemented by §§ 1636.4(e) and 1636.5(f).
The following examples would likely violate
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–2(f) and may also violate 42
U.S.C. 2000gg–1(5).
Example 1636.5 #43: Perrin requests a stool
due to pregnancy. Lucy, Perrin’s supervisor,
denies Perrin’s request. The corporate human
resources department instructs Lucy to grant
the request because there is no undue
hardship. Angry about being overruled, Lucy
thereafter gives Perrin an unjustified poor
performance rating and denies Perrin’s
request to attend training that Lucy approves
for Perrin’s coworkers.
Example 1636.5 #44: Marisol files an EEOC
charge after Cyrus, her supervisor, refused to
provide her with the reasonable
accommodation of help with lifting after her
cesarean section. Marisol also alleges that
after she asked for the accommodation, Cyrus
asked two coworkers to conduct surveillance
on Marisol, including watching her at work,
noting with whom she associated in the
workplace, suggesting to other employees
that they should avoid her, and reporting her
breaks to Cyrus.
Example 1636.5 #45: Mara provides her
employer with a note from her health care
128 Id. at III.

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

provider explaining that she is pregnant, has
morning sickness, and needs to start work
later on certain days. Mara’s supervisor
requires that Mara confirm the pregnancy
through an ultrasound, even though the
employer already has sufficient information
regarding Mara’s pregnancy.
Example 1636.5 #46: During an interview
at an employment agency, Arden tells the
human resources staffer, Stanley, that Arden
is dealing with complications from their
recent childbirth and may need time off for
doctor’s appointments during their first few
weeks at work. Stanley counsels Arden that
needing leave so soon after starting will be
a ‘‘black mark’’ on their application.
Example 1636.5 #47: Merritt, a client of an
employment agency, is discharged from an
employer after requesting an accommodation
under the PWFA. The employment agency
refuses to refer Merritt to other employers,
telling Merritt that they only refer workers
who will not cause any trouble.
Example 1636.5 #48: Jessie, a factory union
steward, ensures that workers know about
their rights under the PWFA and encourages
workers with known limitations to ask for
reasonable accommodations. Jessie helps
employees navigate the reasonable
accommodation process and provides
suggestions of possible reasonable
accommodations. Factory supervisors are
annoyed at the number of PWFA reasonable
accommodation requests and write up Jessie
for petty safety violations and other actions
that had not been worthy of discipline before.
Example 1636.5 #49: While she was
pregnant, Laila requested and received the
reasonable accommodation of a temporary
suspension of the essential function of
moving heavy boxes and placement in the
light duty program. After giving birth, Laila
tells her employer that she has decided to
resign and stay home for a year. Her
employer responds by saying that if Laila
follows through and resigns now, the
employer will have no choice but to give her
a negative reference because Laila demanded
an accommodation but did not have the
loyalty to come back after having her baby.
Example 1636.5 #50: Robbie, a retail
worker, is visibly pregnant and would like to
sit while working at the cash register. Robbie
explains the situation to the manager, who
requires Robbie to produce a signed doctor’s
note saying that Robbie is pregnant and
needs to sit. Because Robbie is obviously
pregnant, has confirmed the pregnancy, and
requests one of the simple modifications that
will virtually always be found to be a
reasonable accommodation that does not
impose an undue hardship, the covered
entity is not permitted to require additional
medical documentation.
Protection of Confidential Medical
Information
As explained in the discussion of
§ 1636.3(l) Documentation, the established
ADA rules requiring covered entities to keep
medical information of applicants,
employees, and former employees
confidential apply to medical information
obtained in connection with a reasonable

PO 00000

Frm 00081

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 4702

54793

accommodation request under the PWFA.129
Medical information obtained by the
employer in the process of a worker seeking
a reasonable accommodation under the
PWFA must be protected as set out in the
ADA and failing to do so would violate the
ADA. For example, the fact that someone is
pregnant or has recently been pregnant, is
medical information about that person, as is
the fact that they have a medical condition
related to pregnancy or childbirth. Thus,
disclosing that someone is pregnant, has
recently been pregnant, or has a related
medical condition violates the ADA, unless
an exception applies, as does disclosing that
someone is receiving or has requested an
accommodation under the PWFA or has
limitations for which they requested or are
receiving a reasonable accommodation under
the PWFA (because revealing this
information discloses that the person is
pregnant, has recently been pregnant, or has
a related medical condition).130
In addition, releasing medical information,
threatening to release medical information, or
requiring an employee or applicant to share
their medical information with individuals
who have no role in processing a request for
reasonable accommodation may violate the
PWFA’s retaliation and coercion
provisions.131
Section 1636.7

Relationship to Other Laws

The PWFA at 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5 and this
section of the regulation address the PWFA’s
relationship to other Federal, State, and local
laws.
1636.7(a) Relationship to Other Laws
Generally
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(1) addresses the
relationship of the PWFA to other Federal,
State, and local laws governing protections
for individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions and
makes clear that the PWFA does not limit the
rights of individuals affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions
under a Federal, State, or local law that
provides greater or equal protection. It is
equally true that Federal, State, or local laws
that provide less protection for individuals
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions than the PWFA do not
limit the rights provided by the PWFA. The
regulation reiterates the statutory provision
addressing the relationship of the PWFA to
other Federal, State, and local laws governing
protections for individuals affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions.
Thirty States and five localities have laws
that provide accommodations for pregnant
129 Enforcement Guidance on Disability-Related
Inquiries, supra note 89, at text accompanying n.9;
EEOC, Enforcement Guidance: Preemployment
Disability-Related Questions and Medical
Examinations, at text accompanying n.6 and nn.23–
25 (1995), https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/
enforcement-guidance-preemployment-disabilityrelated-questions-and-medical.
130 29 CFR 1630.14(c); Enforcement Guidance on
Disability-Related Inquiries , supra note 89, at A.
131 See § 1636.5(f)(1) and (2).

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

54794

Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 154 / Friday, August 11, 2023 / Proposed Rules

workers.132 Federal laws, including, but not
limited to, Title VII, the ADA, the FMLA, the
Rehabilitation Act, and the PUMP Act, also
provide protections for certain workers
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or related
medical conditions.133 All of the protections
regarding discrimination based on
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions in these laws are unaffected by
the PWFA. Additionally, if there are greater
protections in other laws, those would apply.
For example, the State of Washington’s
Healthy Starts Act provides that certain
accommodations, including lifting
restrictions of 17 pounds or more, cannot be
the subject of an undue hardship analysis.134
If a worker in Washington is seeking a lifting
restriction as a reasonable accommodation
for a pregnancy-related reason under the
Healthy Starts Act, an employer in
Washington cannot argue that a lifting
restriction of 20 pounds is an undue
hardship, even though that defense could be
raised if the claim were brought under the
PWFA.
Furthermore, employees and applicants
may bring claims under multiple State or
Federal laws. Thus, a pregnant applicant
denied a position because they are pregnant
and will need leave for recovery from
childbirth may bring a claim under both Title
VII for sex discrimination and the PWFA for
the denial of an employment opportunity
based on the applicant’s need for an
accommodation. Similarly, a worker with
postpartum depression who, for that reason,
is denied an equal employment opportunity
may bring a claim under both the PWFA and
the ADA, and possibly Title VII.
Under Title VII, employees affected by
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical
conditions may be able to receive
accommodations if they can identify a
comparator ‘‘similar in their ability or
inability to work.’’ 135 Under the PWFA,
employees affected by pregnancy, childbirth,
or related medical conditions will be able to
seek reasonable accommodations whether or
not other employees have those
accommodations and whether or not the
affected employees are similar in their ability
or inability to work as employees not so
affected. Additionally, if the covered entity
offers a neutral reason or policy to explain
why employees affected by pregnancy,
childbirth or related medical conditions
cannot access a specific benefit, the

lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS2

132 U.S. Dep’t of Lab., Employment Protections for
Workers Who Are Pregnant or Nursing, https://
www.dol.gov/agencies/wb/pregnant-nursingemployment-protections (last visited Apr. 4, 2023).
133 For an explanation of the interaction between
the FMLA and the ADA, see 29 CFR 825.702.
134 Wash. Rev. Code 43.10.005(1)(d).
135 42 U.S.C. 2000e(k).

VerDate Sep<11>2014

19:09 Aug 10, 2023

Jkt 259001

employee with a known limitation under the
PWFA still may ask for a waiver of that
policy as a reasonable accommodation.
Under the PWFA, the employer must grant
the waiver, or another reasonable
accommodation, absent undue hardship. If,
for example, an employer denies a pregnant
worker’s request to join its light duty
program as a reasonable accommodation,
arguing that the program is for workers with
on-the-job injuries, it may be difficult for the
employer to prove that allowing the worker
with a known limitation under the PWFA to
use that program is an undue hardship.
Finally, employers in this situation should
remember that if there are others to whom
the benefit is extended, the Young v. United
Parcel Serv., Inc., Court stated that ‘‘[the
employer’s] reason [for refusing to
accommodate a pregnant employee] normally
cannot consist simply of a claim that it is
more expensive or less convenient to add
pregnant women to the category of those . . .
whom the employer accommodates.’’ 136
Thus, if the undue hardship defense of the
employer under the PWFA is based solely on
cost or convenience, that defense could,
under certain fact patterns, lead to liability
under Title VII.
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(a)(2) makes clear that
an employer-sponsored health plan is not
required under the PWFA to pay for or cover
any item, procedure, or treatment and that
the PWFA does not affect any right or remedy
available under any other Federal, State, or
local law with respect to any such payment
or coverage requirement. For example,
nothing in the PWFA requires or forbids an
employer to pay for health insurance benefits
for an abortion.
1636.7(b) Rule of Construction
42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) provides a ‘‘[r]ule of
construction’’ 137 stating that the law is
‘‘subject to the applicability to religious
employment’’ set forth in section 702(a) of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e–1(a). The relevant portion of section
702(a) provides that ‘‘[Title VII] shall not
apply . . . to a religious corporation,
association, educational institution, or
society with respect to the employment of
individuals of a particular religion to perform
work connected with the carrying on by such
corporation, association, educational
institution, or society of its activities.’’ 138
As with assertions of section 702(a) in Title
VII matters, when 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) is
asserted by a respondent employer, the
136 Young, 575 U.S. at 229.
137 42 U.S.C. 2000gg–5(b) (heading).
138 The PWFA makes no mention of section
703(e)(2) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which
provides a second statutory exemption for religious
educational institutions in certain circumstances.

PO 00000

Frm 00082

Fmt 4701

Sfmt 9990

Commission will consider the application of
the provision on a case-by-case basis.139
Section 1636.8

Severability

Following Congress’s rule for the statute, in
places where the regulation uses the same
language as the statute, if any of those
identical regulatory provisions, or the
application of those provisions to particular
persons or circumstances, is held invalid or
found to be unconstitutional, the remainder
of the regulation and the application of that
provision of the regulation to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected. For
example, if § 1636.4(b) of the regulation is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it is
the intent of the Commission that the
remainder of the regulation shall not be
affected.
In other places, where the regulation
provides additional guidance to carry out the
PWFA, including examples of reasonable
accommodations, following Congress’s intent
regarding the severability of the provisions of
the statute, it is the Commission’s intent that
if any of those regulatory provisions or the
application of those provisions to particular
persons or circumstances is held invalid or
found to be unconstitutional, the remainder
of the regulation and the application of that
provision of the regulation to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected. For
example, if § 1636.3(j)(4) is held to be invalid
or unconstitutional, it is the Commission’s
intent that the remainder of the regulation
shall not be affected.
[FR Doc. 2023–17041 Filed 8–7–23; 11:15 am]
BILLING CODE 6570–01–P
139 The EEOC’s procedures ensure that employers
have an opportunity to raise religious defenses and
that any religious defense to a charge of
discrimination is carefully considered. See
Religious Discrimination Compliance Manual,
supra note 103, at 12–I(C)(3) (discussing the
‘‘nuanced balancing’’ required and instructing
investigators to ‘‘take great care’’); 29 CFR 1601 et
seq. (setting out the EEOC’s charge procedures). The
EEOC recognizes employers’ valid religious
defenses and dismisses charges at the
administrative stage accordingly. See Newsome v.
EEOC, 301 F.3d 227, 229–230 (5th Cir. 2002) (per
curiam) (EEOC dismissed a charge where the
employer offered evidence it fell under the religious
organization exemption). The EEOC has no
authority to impose penalties on private employers,
see Occidental Life Ins. Co. of Cal. v. EEOC, 432
U.S. 355, 363 (1977); thus, if the EEOC rejects a
private employer’s asserted religious defense, the
EEOC cannot force the employer to resolve the
charge or pay any type of damages. To obtain any
type of relief if the EEOC is unsuccessful at
obtaining voluntary compliance, the EEOC would
have to bring a case in Federal court, where the
validity of the employer’s religious defense would
be determined.

E:\FR\FM\11AUP2.SGM

11AUP2

