Submitted via www.regulations.gov 
 
        October 10, 2023 
 
 
 
Mr. Raymond Windmiller 
Executive Officer 
Executive Secretariat 
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
131 M Street NE 
Washington DC  20507 
 
Dear Mr. Windmiller: 
 

RE: RIN 3046–AB30, Regulations to Implement the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act 
 
  The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW) submits 
these comments in support of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s (“EEOC” or 
“Commission”) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”), RIN 3046–AB30, Regulations to 
Implement the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act.1 
 
  UFCW represents 1.2 million workers in grocery and retail stores, healthcare, and 
food processing and meatpacking industries throughout the United States and Canada.  Among 
our members are the women standing hours on their feet, each day behind a cash register; the 
women in warehouses climbing ladders and stacking heavy boxes; the women in healthcare 
working tirelessly under stressful conditions; and women working on the line in meat and poultry 
processing.  We believe that a woman’s duties or responsibilities at work should not stand in the 
way of her desires to become pregnant and have a child.  
 
  While our members benefit from the protection of a collective bargaining 
agreement, we believe the proposed rule provides important clarity for both workers and 
employers and will fulfill the law’s purpose of ensuring people with known limitations related to 
pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions can remain healthy and working.  
 
Unnecessary Delay  
 
  We applaud the EEOC for making clear that employer delay in responding to 
accommodation requests “may result in a violation of the PWFA.”2  Too often employers delay 
providing accommodations for weeks or even months.  Delays can often adversely impact the 
health of workers and/or the health of their pregnancies, a concern that the PWFA was meant 
to address.  

 
1 88 Fed. Reg. 54714 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
2 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n. 98 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
 
Anthony M. Perrone, International President United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC 
Milton Jones, International Secretary-Treasurer 1775 K Street, NW • Washington DC 20006-1598 
 Office (202) 223-3111 • Fax (202) 466-1562 • www.ufcw.org  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 2 - 
 
 
  To ensure workers are able to get the accommodations they need without 
unnecessary delay, we recommend the EEOC make several changes to the proposed rule and 
proposed appendix: 
 
Strengthen the “Unnecessary Delay” Definition  
 

1. 1636.4(a)(1) We urge the EEOC to clarify that unnecessary delays at any point 
during the accommodation process may result in violation, not just delays in 
“responding to a reasonable accommodation request.”  To that end, we 
recommend the EEOC amend 1636.4(a)(1) by striking “An unnecessary delay in 
responding to a reasonable accommodation request may result in a violation of the 
PWFA” and replacing it with “An unnecessary delay in responding to a reasonable 
accommodation request, engaging in the interactive process, or providing a 
reasonable accommodation may result in a violation of the PWFA.”  This will clarify 
that employers cannot avoid a violation simply by providing an initial response to 
the worker’s request but must instead avoid delay during the entirety of the 
accommodation process.  

 
2. 1636.4(a)(1)(vi). We agree that covered entities should provide interim 

accommodation during the interactive process if the worker’s original 
accommodation request cannot be immediately granted.  However, providing 
interim accommodation should not excuse “unnecessary delay” if employers 
proceed to delay the provision of the ultimate accommodation the worker requests 
and needs.  We therefore recommend that the EEOC remove the sentence “If an 
interim reasonable accommodation is offered, delay by the covered entity is more 
likely to be excused.” 

 
3. 1636.4(a). We appreciate the EEOC’s inclusion of a variety of factors to be 

considered when evaluating unnecessary delays.  We recommend the EEOC 
add one additional factor to the list: “The urgency of the requested 
accommodation.”  

 
  In some cases, pregnant people who do not receive immediate relief can face 
tragic consequences, such as workers who are denied permission to seek emergency medical 
care, and as a result, experience complications or loss.3  This additional factor speaks to the 
importance of immediacy when it comes to providing accommodations under the PWFA and will 
better assist the EEOC and courts in evaluating whether an unnecessary delay has occurred.”4    
 

 
3 See, e.g., A Better Balance, Long Overdue: It is Time for the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act 8, 11 (2019), 
https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Long-Overdue.pdf (citing examples of workers who 
fainted and needed emergency care or experienced pregnancy loss as a result of not being accommodated).  
4 See 88 Fed. Reg. 54789 & n.97 (Aug. 11, 2023).  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 3 - 
 
State That “Unnecessary Delay” in the Interactive Process Can Violate PWFA 
 

1. 1636.3(k).  We respectfully ask the EEOC to add a sentence to the definition 
of Interactive Process as follows: “Unnecessary delay, as defined in 
§1634.4(a)(1), in the interactive process may result in a violation of the 
PWFA.”  The proposed appendix already recognizes the importance of 
expediency in carrying out the interactive process, stating “a covered entity should 
respond expeditiously to a request for reasonable accommodation and act 
promptly to provide the reasonable accommodation.”  (emphasis added).5  The 
regulation itself should underscore this directive by making clear that unnecessarily 
delaying the interactive process may result in a violation of the PWFA.  

 
2. 1636.3(k).  We also request that the EEOC add an example in the proposed 

appendix that illustrates how quickly and informally the interactive process 
can occur.  For example, the EEOC can include a scenario where an employee 
makes a simple request of her immediate supervisor, and her immediate 
supervisor agrees on the spot to make the requested change.  

 
  Add A Definition of “Interim Accommodation” to the Reasonable   
  Accommodation Definition  
 

3. 1636.3(h).  Providing employers, a clear understanding of the meaning of the term 
“interim accommodation” will encourage them to rely on such accommodations to 
avoid delay.  To that end, we suggest adding a new subsection 1636.3(h)(6) that 
reads: “Interim Reasonable Accommodation means any temporary or short-term 
measure put in place immediately or as soon as possible after the employee 
requests an accommodation that allows the employee to continue working safely 
and comfortably while the employer and employee engage in the interactive 
process, or the employer implements a reasonable accommodation arrived at 
through the interactive process.”  

 
Strengthen the Supporting Documentation Framework to Ensure 
Documentation Demands Do Not Contribute to Unnecessary Delays  

 
4. 1636.3(l) Supporting documentation: We urge the EEOC to adopt the changes 

suggested below to ensure employers do not impose burdensome and 
unnecessary medical certification requirements that often contribute to substantial 
delays in accommodation. 

 

 
5 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023). 



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 4 - 
 
Supporting Documentation  
 
  As the EEOC recognizes in the proposed appendix, many workers face barriers in 
obtaining appointments with health care providers in a timely way, or altogether, posing 
significant barriers to obtaining medical documentation.6  This is especially true for workers in 
rural areas and low-wage workers who lack control over their work schedules.7  Furthermore, 
women of color, particularly Black women, often face medical racism that may inhibit or delay 
their ability to secure supporting documentation.8  Additionally, some medical care providers 
impose fees to fill out forms, which can grow to significant amounts over time, as needs change 
and as employers request new or different documentation.9  In Nevada, our workers have faced 
high fees for FMLA forms and we do not want this trend to be replicated in pregnancy 
accommodation requests. 
 
  Women working jobs in grocery and retail stores, healthcare facilities, or food 
processing and meatpacking plants can face extreme difficulties when trying to obtain medical 
documentation to support their needs for workplace accommodations.  For example, some 
workers in these industries face scheduling constraints because they work the overnight, third 
shift, or their regular schedules that do not easily allow for scheduling a doctor’s appointment 
without taking time off work.  For Black women and women of color, their healthcare providers 
may harbor implicit biases, and as a result, these healthcare providers will not believe these 
patients when they talk about the problems or difficulties they are experiencing.10   
 

 
6 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 & n.87 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
7 See, e.g., C. Brigance et. al, March of Dimes, Nowhere to Go: Maternity Deserts Across the U.S. 5, 11 (2022), 
https://www.marchofdimes.org/sites/default/files/2022-10/2022_Maternity_Care_Report.pdf (noting that 4.7 million 
women live in counties with limited access to maternity care, and that half of women who live in rural communities 
have to travel over 30 minutes to access an obstetric hospital).   
8 See, e.g., Brittany D. Chambers et al, Clinicians' Perspectives on Racism and Black Women's Maternal Health, 
3 Women’s Health Rep. 476, 479 (2022), https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9148644/ (“Clinicians 
acknowledged that racism causes and impacts the provision of inequitable care provided to Black women, 
highlighting Black women are often dismissed and not included as active participants in care decisions and 
treatment.”); see also Black Mamas Matter Alliance and A Better Balance, Centering the Experiences of Black 
Mamas in the Workplace (2022), https://www.abetterbalance.org/centering-black-mamas-pwfa/ (As part of a 
listening session with Black birth workers and organizational leaders on the difficulties Black pregnant people 
experience obtaining accommodations prior to the PWFA, one participant remarked: “How do I prioritize going to 
the doctor's office, when it's gonna take me forever when I get there, because I'm at a public clinic, but I need this 
money, and I'm gonna be in there with a doctor for 10 minutes, but I spent all day trying to get those 10 minutes. 
Just the entry point, the access, sometimes is an issue.”).  
9 Kimberly Danebrock, Charging Patients for Completing Forms, Cooperative of American Physicians (Apr. 15, 
2014), https://www.capphysicians.com/articles/charging-patients-completing-forms; Can Doctors Charge 
Employees a Fee for Completing FMLA Certifications?, SHRM, 
https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/octorschargeeforfmlacertifications.aspx 
(last visited Sept. 18, 2023); see also Meredith Cohn and Jessica Calefati, Johns Hopkins Medicine Joins 
National Move to Charge Patients for Messaging Their Doctor, The Baltimore Banner (July 3, 2023), 
https://www.thebaltimorebanner.com/community/public-health/johns-hopkins-mychart-messaging-fees-
7HJ6GX7NGNE7NPYQQ7E7C5EHXE/ (discussing health care systems charging for My Chart messages).  
10 Verónica Zaragovia, Trying To Avoid Racist Health Care, Black Women Seek Out Black Obstetricians, NPR 
(May 28, 2021),  https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2021/05/28/996603360/trying-to-avoid-racist-health-
care-black-women-seek-out-black-obstetricians.  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 5 - 
 
  The PWFA recognizes the importance of workers obtaining accommodations in a 
timely fashion to protect their health.  Several aspects of the proposed rule on supporting 
documentation would unfortunately impose an unnecessary financial, physical, and mental 
burden on workers, contribute to substantial delay in receiving reasonable accommodations, 
and deter workers from seeking the accommodations they need for their health and wellbeing.11  
 
We urge the EEOC to modify the supporting documentation framework as follows: 
 

1. 1636.3(l)(1)(i). Clarifying “obvious” needs. We agree with the Commission that 
employers should not be permitted to seek medical documentation when the need 
for accommodation is “obvious.”  We are concerned, however, that employers 
could unilaterally impose restrictions based on paternalistic stereotypes about 
what pregnant or postpartum people “obviously” need, or that the proposed rule 
could have the unintended consequence of making the worker’s body the subject 
of invasive scrutiny as employers consider whether their pregnancy is “obvious.”  
For these reasons, we encourage the Commission to maintain this important 
concept in the final regulations, but to clarify how it is to be applied.  We suggest 
replacing the current text of 1636.3(l)(1)(i) with the following: “(i) When the 
employee has confirmed, through self-attestation, that they have a limitation 
related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition, and the need for 
accommodation is obvious.”  

 
  Additionally, we suggest providing guidance on how an employer may determine 
whether the need for accommodation is obvious: “A need for accommodation is obvious if, in 
light of the pregnant employee’s known limitation, the employer either knew or should have 
known that the employee would need or did need the accommodation.”  For example, if a 
pregnant worker self-attests to regular vomiting and requests temporary relocation of their 
workstation closer to the bathroom, the need for accommodation is “obvious” because the 
employer knows, or should have known, that the worker needs easy bathroom access.  Similarly, 
“obvious” would be a police officer who self-attests to pregnancy and whose uniform and 
bulletproof vest no longer fit due to her physical changes and asks for larger sizes.  
 
  Finally, we encourage the Commission to warn employers in the proposed 
appendix against imposing accommodations not requested by the worker based on assumptions 
that the need for accommodation is “obvious.” 
 

 
11 The legislative record is clear that the PWFA did not intend to include a supporting documentation framework 
that would be onerous for workers. For example, while the Minority Views of the House Report stated that “the bill 
presumably allows employers to require such documentation when the need for an accommodation is not 
obvious,” the Majority did not incorporate that analysis. H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 57 (2021), 
https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf; see also Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant 
Workers’ Fairness Act (H.R. 2694) Before the Subcomm. on Civil Rights Human. & Servs. of the H. Comm. on 
Educ. & Labor, 116th Cong. (2019) (Questions for the record submitted by Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-
President, A Better Balance, at 13, arguing against the inclusion of a medical documentation requirement 
because employers often seek medical notes as a “way to prolong having to provide a very simple or reasonable 
accommodation”).  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 6 - 
 

2. 1636.3(l)(1)(iii).  We applaud the agency for making clear that employers cannot 
seek supporting documentation for certain straightforward accommodation 
requests.12  We urge the EEOC to expand the list to also include:13  

 
● Time off, up to 8 weeks, to recover from childbirth.14  
● Time off to attend healthcare appointments related to pregnancy, childbirth, or 

related medical conditions, including, at minimum, at least 16 healthcare 
appointments.15  

● Flexible scheduling for nausea.16   
● Modifications to uniforms or dress code.  
● Allowing rest breaks, as needed.  
● Eating or drinking at a workstation.  
● Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair.  
● Providing personal protective equipment.  
● Reprieve from lifting over 20 pounds.  
● Access to closer parking.  

 
  We note that this new list will diverge from the list of predictable assessments 
included in the “undue hardship” definition, as the principles underlying whether a particular 
accommodation warrants medical certification differ from the principles underlying the undue 
hardship question.  
 

 
12 88 Fed. Reg. 54769 (Aug. 11, 2023) (stating that it is not reasonable to require supporting documentation 
beyond self-attestation when the accommodation is one listed as a predictable assessment or relates to lactation 
or pumping). 
13 In New York City, employers with 4 or more employees are not permitted to ask for medical documentation for 
many of the accommodations on this list. Any accommodations listed here that are not on New York City’s list are 
similarly minor in nature. See NYC Commission on Human Rights Legal Enforcement, Guidance on 
Discrimination on the Basis of Pregnancy, Childbirth, Related Medical Conditions, Lactation Accommodations, 
and Sexual or Reproductive Health Decisions 10 (2021), 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/cchr/downloads/pdf/publications/Pregnancy_InterpretiveGuide_2021.pdf.  
14 See, e.g., NYC Commission on Human Rights Legal Enforcement, Guidance on Discrimination on the Basis of 
Pregnancy, Childbirth, Related Medical Conditions, Lactation Accommodations, and Sexual or Reproductive 
Health Decisions 10 (2021), 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/cchr/downloads/pdf/publications/Pregnancy_InterpretiveGuide_2021.pdf.  
15 Nearly every state paid sick time law permits employers to request a healthcare provider note only if the person 
needs time off for 3 or more consecutive days. See A Better Balance, Know Your Rights: State and Local Paid 
Sick Time Laws FAQs (last updated July 7, 2022), https://www.abetterbalance.org/resources/know-your-rights-
state-and-local-paid-sick-time-laws/.  We suggest a minimum of 16 appointments as it reflects the average 
number of appointments for prenatal and postnatal care for low-risk pregnancies. See Alex Friedman Peahl et. al, 
A Comparison of International Prenatal Care Guidelines for Low-Risk Women to Inform High-Value Care, 222 
American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology 505, 505 (2020), https://www.ajog.org/article/S0002-
9378(20)30029-6/fulltext (stating that the median number of recommended prenatal care visits for a low-risk 
pregnancy in the United States is 12-14 visits); ACOG Committee Opinion No. 736: Optimizing Postpartum Care, 
131 Obstetrics & Gynecology 140, 141 (2018), 
https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/fulltext/2018/05000/acog_committee_opinion_no__736__optimizing.42.asp
x (recommending at least two postpartum care appointments, with ongoing care as needed).  
16 See 29 CFR § 825.115(f) ("Absences attributable to incapacity [due to pregnancy] qualify for FMLA leave even 
though the employee . . . does not receive treatment from a health care provider during the absence . . . . An 
employee who is pregnant may be unable to report to work because of severe morning sickness.").  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 7 - 
 

3. 1636.3(l)(2): We commend the EEOC for making clear that employers may only 
demand “reasonable documentation.”  This is critical.  In the early months of PWFA 
implementation, some employers have imposed extremely onerous 
documentation requirements, similar to those under the FMLA and ADA, that far 
exceed “reasonable.”17  As a result, many workers have not received the 
accommodations they need in a timely manner.  We strongly encourage the 
agency to do the following to ensure employers request only “reasonable” 
documentation:  
 

a. Modify the definition of reasonable documentation found in 1636.3(l)(2).  It 
is unnecessarily invasive for an employer to demand to know a worker’s 
precise condition or a description of it; rather it should be sufficient for a 
health care provider to (1) describe the worker’s limitation that necessitates 
accommodation, (2) confirm that the limitation is related to pregnancy, 
childbirth, or a related medical condition, and (3) state that they require an 
accommodation.  For example, medical documentation need not state that 
a worker needs to attend a medical appointment related to a miscarriage but 
can simply state that the worker needs to attend a medical appointment 
during the workday (the limitation) due to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related 
medical condition, and thus a modified start time (the accommodation) is 
recommended. 

b. Make clear in the proposed rule or proposed appendix that employers cannot 
require workers to submit any particular medical certification form, so long 
as the health care provider documents the requisite three pieces of 
information, as explained immediately above.  Additionally, make clear that 
employers cannot require workers to complete ADA or FMLA certification 
forms in order to receive a PWFA accommodation, as such forms seek 
substantially more information than is “reasonable” under PWFA.  

c. We urge the EEOC to clarify that under no circumstances may an employer 
require a worker to take any sort of test to confirm their pregnancy or to 
provide documentation or other proof of pregnancy.  The Commission should 
clarify that self-attestations of pregnancy are sufficient. 

 
4. 1636.3(l)(3) Health care providers.  

a. We applaud the EEOC for its comprehensive, albeit non-exhaustive, list of 
health care providers from whom employees can seek documentation.  
However, employers should not have the discretion to second guess the 
judgment of licensed healthcare providers due to an assumption that they 
are not “appropriate” for the situation.  We therefore urge the Commission to 
remove the terms “appropriate” and “in a particular situation” from the 
sentence “The covered entity may request documentation from the 
appropriate health care provider in a particular situation” (emphasis added).  

 
17 Examples on file with the Center for WorkLife Law & A Better Balance.  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 8 - 
 

b. We also urge the EEOC to make clear in the proposed rule or proposed 
appendix that employers must accept documentation from telehealth care 
providers.  

c. We applaud the Commission for making clear that employers cannot 
require workers to be examined by the employer’s healthcare provider, 
as this employer practice invades privacy, could lead to differential 
evaluations based on race, imposes unnecessary delay, and is a 
significant deterrent to seeking accommodation.  We also applaud the 
EEOC’s emphasis on ensuring employers maintain worker privacy when 
seeking documentation.  

 
5. We appreciate that the EEOC mentioned in the proposed appendix that it is a best 

practice for employers to provide interim accommodations if a worker is delayed in 
obtaining supporting documentation.18  We suggest the agency strengthen this 
provision by clarifying that the interim accommodation provided must be an 
accommodation that meets the worker’s needs and would not constitute an 
adverse action, such as forced unpaid leave, against the worker.  
 

Temporary Excusal from Essential Functions  
 
  §1636.3(f)(2) Qualified employee or applicant.  We thank the EEOC for the 
thoughtful framework it set out to determine whether an employee or applicant is qualified if they 
cannot perform one or more essential functions.  We recommend that the definition of “in the 
near future” post-pregnancy be one year rather than forty weeks, except with respect to lactation, 
which we believe should be extended to 2 years.  Furthermore, we support the EEOC’s approach 
to not combine periods of temporary suspension of an essential function during pregnancy and 
post-pregnancy.  
 

(a) The definition of “in the near future” should be extended to one year 
postpartum, except with respect to lactation which should be extended to two 
years.  We strongly recommend that the Commission extend the “near future” 
timeframe in the postpartum context to one year.  The Commission cites to important 
medical findings and Medicaid extension all pointing to the importance of one year for 
postpartum reasonable accommodations.19  Allowing a temporary excusal of an 
essential function for generally one year postpartum is critical for maternal and infant 
health.  It is especially important for pregnant people who are at a higher risk, including 
Black women, who are three times as likely to die of pregnancy-related causes than 
white women.20  

 

 
18 88 Fed. Reg. 54787 (Aug. 11, 2023) (“[T]he Commission encourages employers who choose to require 
documentation, when that is permitted under this regulation, to grant interim accommodations as a best practice if 
an employee indicates that they have tried to obtain documentation but there is a delay in obtaining it…”).  
19 88 Fed. Reg. 54724-25 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
20 Working Together to Reduce Black Maternal Mortality, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Apr. 4, 
2023), https://www.cdc.gov/healthequity/features/maternal-mortality/index.html.  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 9 - 
 
  In addition to extending the definition of “in the near future” to one year following 
childbirth, we urge the Commission to extend it to two years for lactation-related 
accommodations.  The American Association of Pediatrics recommends parents express milk 
for at least two years following childbirth for both maternal and infant health.21  Apart from these 
two recommendations, we believe the general approach adopted by the Commission comports 
with the PWFA’s statutory language, legislative intent, and the real-life experiences of pregnant 
and postpartum workers. 
 

(b) We recommend keeping the proposed rule’s framework of restarting the time frame 
for excusing an essential function, precisely for the reasons stated in the proposed 
appendix–that pregnant workers very often cannot possibly anticipate what needs or 
limitations may occur postpartum.  The same may be true during pregnancy itself, 
and thus, each accommodation request should be considered based on specific 
“limitation” at issue.  We strongly urge the EEOC to state in the regulation the principle 
found in the Interpretive Guidance that the timeframe restarts with each new 
accommodation request and following return from childbirth leave.  

 
Reasonable Accommodation  
 
  We appreciate the EEOC’s detailed discussion of reasonable accommodations, 
which reflects the range of accommodations workers impacted by pregnancy, childbirth, and 
related medical conditions need to remain healthy and earn an income.  
 
  1636.3(i).  We suggest three ways the Commission can better emphasize that 
reasonable accommodation includes modifications or adjustments to alleviate pain and 
discomfort and to avoid health risks.  
 

1. We urge the EEOC to add a new subsection to 1636.3(i) that provides as an 
additional example of reasonable accommodation: “modifications that 
alleviate pain or discomfort and reduce health risks for the employee or 
applicant or their pregnancy.”  We appreciate the EEOC’s highlighting in the 
proposed appendix the critical nature of accommodations that alleviate increased 
pain and health risks.22  We suggest that the EEOC make this category of 
accommodation more prominent in the rule itself and add additional examples to 
the proposed appendix.  
 
Employers have historically denied pregnant workers accommodations due to a 
lack of “evidence” of a measurable and diagnosable complication, and many 
healthcare providers believe they are not allowed to recommend accommodations 

 
21 Joan Younger Meek, Lawrence Noble, and the Section on Breastfeeding, Policy Statement: Breastfeeding and 
the Use of Human Milk, 150 Pediatrics 1, 11 (2022), 
https://publications.aap.org/pediatrics/article/150/1/e2022057988/188347/Policy-Statement-Breastfeeding-and-
the-Use-of?autologincheck=redirected. Employers can still raise a defense that accommodating lactation-related 
needs for two years would impose an undue hardship. 
22 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023).  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 10 - 
 

without the same evidence.23  Highlighting the law's purpose as it relates to risk 
and pain avoidance, therefore, is critical.  This is especially true for women of color, 
who are more likely both to work in physically demanding jobs,24 and to have their 
employers and healthcare providers underestimate their pain and apply higher 
levels of risk tolerance toward them.25  

 
2. Additionally, we strongly urge the EEOC to delete the language in 1636.3(i)(2) 

which qualifies that “adjustments to allow an employee or applicant to work 
without increased pain or increased risk” must be “due to the employee’s or 
applicant’s known limitation.” This language is unnecessary.  No other example 
in the paragraph contains such a clause, and everything in the paragraph is 
necessarily qualified by a link to a known limitation.  Treating this category of 
accommodation differently may create confusion about the legal standard by 
suggesting that the employee or applicant must make some additional showing.  

 
3. Finally, we suggest adding to the proposed appendix the following examples 

of reasonable accommodation to alleviate increased pain and discomfort or 
to avoid increased risk to health: 1) a farmworker being temporarily transferred 
to an indoor position to avoid the risks of falling in a slippery field and exposure to 
toxic pesticides (2) a warehouse worker being given a portable cooling device 
and/or permission to carry a water bottle to avoid pregnancy risks from excessive 
heat; (3) a nurse and her coworkers can be assigned to operate as a team, so that 
the nurse has adequate assistance whenever she needs to perform a strenuous 
task, such as lifting a patient; and (4) a security guard being temporarily reassigned 
from nighttime to daytime shifts to avoid increased fatigue and the health risks 
(miscarriage and preterm birth) associated with working at night.  

 
1636.3(i)(3): We commend the Commission’s thoughtful treatment of leave 
as a reasonable accommodation and suggest modifications.  PWFA’s 
purpose could not be realized without access to leave as an accommodation. 
While the U.S.  desperately needs a comprehensive paid leave program, leave 
provided as an accommodation under PWFA will provide a lifeline to many who 

 
23 ACOG Committee Opinion 733: Employment Considerations During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period, 
131 Obstetrics & Gynecology 115, 119 (2018), https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/committee-
opinion/articles/2018/04/employment-considerations-during-pregnancy-and-the-postpartum-period (stating that it 
is generally safe to work during pregnancy without adverse effects to the pregnant person or fetus, but that 
accommodations are needed for workers whose jobs expose them to toxins, “very physically demanding” work, or 
”an increased risk of falls or injuries,” as well as to address pregancy complications like gestational diabetes). 
24 National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health and National Women’s Law Center, Accommodating 
Pregnancy On the Job: The Stakes for Women of Color and Immigrant Women (2014), https://nwlc.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/08/the_stakes_for_woc_final.pdf.  
25 Jamila Taylor et al., Center for American Progress, Eliminating Racial Disparities in Maternal and Infant 
Mortality 4-6 (May 2019), https://www.americanprogress.org/article/eliminating-racial-disparities-maternal-infant-
mortality/.; Molly R. Altman, et al. Information and Power: Women of Color's Experiences Interacting with Health 
Care Providers in Pregnancy and Birth, 238 Soc. Sci. & Med 112491 (2019), 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.112491; see also Saraswathi Vedam et al., The Giving Voice to Mothers 
Study: Inequity and Mistreatment During Pregnancy and Childbirth in the United States, 16:77 Reproductive 
Health (2019), https://reproductive-health-journal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12978-019-0729-2.  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 11 - 
 

would have otherwise been fired for seeking basic medical care or taking time to 
recover from childbirth.  Further, leave as PWFA accommodation will protect the 
employment of the many workers who have access to state-administered paid 
leave, but previously had inadequate job protection.  For example, women in retail, 
who work during normal business hours, might be unable to schedule an 
appointment with a healthcare provider during the workweek.  Otherwise, they 
could be forced to use paid or unpaid leave, if that is an option even available to 
them, to create some free time to schedule an appointment.  For women in need 
of extended leave, the PWFA will provide critical support because women will no 
longer have to worry about losing their jobs and risking their livelihood when they 
ask for time off to care for their newborn child.  

 
  We suggest two modifications to the proposed rule regarding leave as an 
accommodation in 1636.3(i)(3). 
 
  In its discussion on leave, the Commission notes one potential accommodation as 
“The ability to choose whether to use paid leave … or unpaid leave to the extent that the covered 
entity allows employees using leave not related to pregnancy… to choose…” 1636.3(i)(3)(iii).  
Similarly, the Commission notes in the proposed appendix that “an employer must continue an 
employee’s health insurance benefits during their leave period to the extent that it does so for 
other employees in a similar leave status.”  Fed. Reg. 54780-81.  We respectfully suggest that, 
under PWFA, whether these potential accommodations should be provided turns on the question 
of undue hardship, not on how other employees are treated.  Accordingly, we urge the EEOC to 
modify its treatment of these leave-related accommodations by deleting the comparative 
reference to other employees.26  As with all accommodations, employers may be obligated to 
modify standard practices to accommodate people with limitations related to pregnancy, 
childbirth, or related medical conditions, even if a particular benefit is not routinely offered to 
other employees.27  
 
  Additionally, we strongly urge the Commission to include “continuation of 
health insurance benefits during the period of leave” in 1636.3(i)(3) as another potential 
leave-related accommodation that must be provided absent undue hardship.  For many 
workers, the opportunity to access leave as a reasonable accommodation is hollow without 
continuation of health benefits, as access to uninterrupted healthcare is vital during pregnancy 
and the postpartum period.28  This interpretation is supported by the intent of the PWFA,29 which 
not only has the goal of continued employment, but also the goal of promoting maternal and 

 
26 Of course, if other employees receive a particular accommodation, that may be evidence of no undue hardship.  
27 Similarly, we respectfully suggest that employers may be required to “provide reserved parking spaces” as a 
PWFA reasonable accommodation, even when it is not the case that “the employee is otherwise entitled to use 
employer provided parking.” 88 Fed. Reg. 54779 (Aug. 11, 2023). 
28 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Improving Access to Maternal Health Care in Rural Communities 
6 (“A lack of access to maternal health care can result in a number of negative maternal health outcomes 
including premature birth, low-birth weight, maternal mortality, severe maternal morbidity, and increased risk of 
postpartum depression”), https://www.cms.gov/About-CMS/Agency-Information/OMH/equity-initiatives/rural-
health/09032019-Maternal-Health-Care-in-Rural-Communities.pdf.  
29 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 22-24 (2021), https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf. 



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 12 - 
 
child health.30  Indeed, the House report on the PWFA clearly stated that pregnant people “want, 
and oftentimes need, to keep working during their pregnancies, both for income and to retain 
health insurance.”31  The reasonableness of providing continued health insurance benefits 
during a period of leave is also supported by the FMLA requirement that employers do so for up 
to 12 weeks every year,32 as well as state laws that require continued health benefits during 
leave taken for pregnancy or other health reasons.33 
 
  1636.3(i)(4). We urge the Commission to expand the examples of reasonable 
accommodation for lactation.  We appreciate the EEOC’s highlighting the reasonable 
accommodations often needed by lactating workers who are pumping milk.  While we 
wholeheartedly celebrate the recent passage of the PUMP for Nursing Mothers Act, that law is 
limited to providing reasonable break time and private space for only one year following the birth 
of an employee’s child.34  However, many lactating employees require other reasonable 
accommodations, including the pumping accommodations identified by the Commission in 
1636.3(i)(4)(ii), as well as accommodations that are unrelated to pumping.  We encourage the 
Commission to highlight some of these other lactation accommodations by adding a new section 
3(i)(4)(iii): “Any other job modification, including those identified in 1636.3(i)(2), that would 
remove barriers to producing or expressing human milk, breastfeeding, or chest feeding; avoid 
or alleviate lactation-related health complications; or reduce the risk of contaminating human 
milk produced by the employee.”  
 

 
30 ADA guidance from 2002 states that employers must continue insurance benefits when an employee is on 
leave as an ADA accommodation only to the same extent they do so for other employees. See EEOC, 
Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text after n. 59 
(2002), http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-
unduehardship-under-ada. However, the statutory text of the ADA and its implementing regulations support the 
principle that providing continued health benefits during leave may be a reasonable accommodation, even if other 
employees do not receive the same benefit, where the continued benefits can be provided without undue 
hardship. The longstanding ADA principle that gives employees with disabilities an affirmative right to receive the 
same health insurance benefits as are provided to other employees stems from the ADA’s prohibition on “limiting, 
segregating, or classifying a job applicant or employee in a way that adversely affects the opportunities or status 
of such applicant or employee because of the disability” See 42 U.S.C. § 12112; 29 C.F.R. pt. 1630 app. 1630.5 
(“this part is intended to require that employees with disabilities be accorded equal access to whatever health 
insurance coverage the employer provides to other employees.”). But this non-discrimination concept should not 
be conflated with the standard for providing reasonable accommodation, which does not turn on how other 
employees are treated. Even if the principle from the 2002 guidance were supported by the ADA, it would not be 
instructive in the PWFA context, given the clear legislative intent of the PWFA to promote healthy pregnancies 
and reproductive health and to allow employees to take leave following childbirth, all while maintaining their health 
insurance.  
31 H.R. Rep. No. 117-27, at 24 (2021), https://www.congress.gov/117/crpt/hrpt27/CRPT-117hrpt27.pdf.  
32 Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. § 2614(c); 29 C.F.R. § 825.209.  
33 For example, under the California Pregnancy Disability Leave Law and the California Family Rights Act, 
employees have a right to take up to 7 months of leave with continued health insurance benefits during pregnancy 
and following childbirth. Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11044(c) (employer must continue to provide health insurance 
benefits during 4 months of pregnancy disability leave); Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11092(c) (continued health 
insurance benefits for up to 12 weeks for leave taken to bond with a new child).  
34 Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing Mothers Act (PUMP Act) (Pub. L. 117–328 Division KK).  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 13 - 
 
  1636.3(h). We recommend the following changes to the proposed appendix 
regarding 1) penalizing employees for utilizing accommodations; and 2) compliance with 
production standards:  

 
a) The Commission seeks comment on whether there are other situations where 

ordinary workplace policies operate to penalize workers for using reasonable 
accommodations.  We suggest highlighting that the application to pregnant people 
of “no-fault” attendance/tardy control policies may cause employers to violate 
PWFA as such policies are applied universally without consideration of individual 
circumstances.  For example, a worker using a flexible scheduling accommodation 
due to morning sickness may be automatically penalized under a “no-fault” 
attendance policy.35  

 
Known Limitation  
 
  We applaud the proposed rule for making clear that a “limitation” can be “modest, 
minor, and/or episodic.”36  We also appreciate that the EEOC set out principles that reflect the 
realities of how workers—who are rarely trained in law—typically communicate their needs to an 
employer and suggest some further clarification to the definition.  
 
  1636.3(c). The PWFA is clear that a “representative” of the employee or applicant 
can communicate the employee’s limitation and need for accommodation on the employee’s 
behalf.37  We support that the proposed rule defines “employee representative” to include a 
family member, friend, and health care provider.  We suggest the EEOC add “union 
representative,” to this list.38  The proposed rule also states the employee’s representative 
can include an “other representative.”  We suggest the EEOC replace “other representative” with 
a more descriptive definition, e.g., a “a person who communicates to the employer (with the 
worker’s consent) the needs of the employee or applicant.”  It is critical that the EEOC make 
clear in the proposed rule that third parties cannot communicate the employee’s limitation and 
need for accommodation to the covered entity without the employee’s consent in order to ensure 
third parties are not stereotyping or making assumptions about employees’ needs.  
   
  We also recommend that the EEOC include an example in the proposed appendix 
of a third party communicating the employee’s limitation to the covered entity and illustrating 
how the covered entity should respond to the request.  The example should make clear that 
once the third party has made the covered entity aware of the employee’s need for 
accommodation, the employer must engage in the interactive process directly with the employee 
who is in need of accommodation (not their representative).  

 
35 See, e.g., A Better Balance, Misled & Misinformed: How Some U.S. Employers Use “No Fault”  
Attendance Policies to Trample on Workers’ Rights (And Get Away With It) 17 (2020), 
https://www.abetterbalance.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Misled_and_Misinformed_A_Better_Balance-1-1.pdf 
(discussing story of pregnant worker who was terminated after leaving work to rush to the hospital due to bleeding 
and fearing she was miscarrying).  
36 88 Fed. Reg. 54767.  
37  42 U.S.C. 2000gg(4).  
38 We ask the EEOC to make clear that only a manager who is not an employee’s direct supervisor can act as the 
employee’s third party representative.  



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 14 - 
 
 
  1636.3(d)(1). We applaud the proposed rule’s specific directives that oral notice is 
sufficient to make a worker’s pregnancy-related limitation “known” to the employer, and that an 
employer may not require written notice before responding to a request for accommodation.  We 
further support the proposed appendix’s recognition that a worker need not use any “specific 
words or phrases” or legalese like “reasonable accommodation” to make their limitation “known.”  
 
  Strengthening 1636.3(d) & 1636.3(d)(3). Despite correctly recognizing that 
workers often express the need for accommodation in indirect ways – for instance, by telling a 
supervisor, “I’m having trouble getting to work at my scheduled time because of morning 
sickness”39 – the proposed rule states that “communicated to the employer” means a worker 
“has made [a] request for accommodation.” Section 1636.3(d) (emphasis added).  The proposed 
rule then states that to “[r]equest an accommodation,” the worker “need only communicate to 
the covered entity that the employee . . . (i) Has a limitation, and (ii) Needs an adjustment or 
change at work.” Section 1636.3(d)(3) (emphasis added).  Framing the mandated 
communication as a “request” assumes a worker’s knowledge of the right to such modifications 
and demanding that the worker convey a “need” for a modification similarly assumes that the 
worker believes they are entitled to have their “needs” met by the employer.  But most workers 
– and especially low-wage workers, people who are new to the workforce, immigrants, and/or 
non-native English speakers – do not even know they are entitled to such accommodation, much 
less feel empowered to request one.  
 
As such, a better approach to defining “Communicated to the employer” would be to:  

 
a) Revise §1636.3(d) to read, “‘Communicated to the employer’ means an employee 

or applicant, or a representative of the employee or applicant, has communicated 
to the covered entity that the employee or applicant: (i) Has a limitation that (ii) 
Necessitates an adjustment or change at work.”  

b) Revise the list of employer representatives to whom the employee may 
communicate their limitations.  The proposed appendix appropriately states that 
employees may communicate their needs to “the people who assign them daily 
tasks and whom they would normally consult if they had questions or concerns.”  
However, the language used in the proposed regulation itself— “communicating 
with a supervisor, manager, [or] someone who has supervisory authority for the 
employee” 1636.3(d)—doesn’t accurately capture as broad of a range of 
individuals to whom the employee may communicate their limitation.  We therefore 
suggest replacing the phrase “who has supervisory authority” with “who plays a 
supervisory role.”   

 
39 88 Fed. Reg. 54722. 



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 15 - 
 
Undue Hardship  
 
  1636.3(j)(4). We support the proposed rule’s explanation of “predictable 
assessments,” meaning examples of accommodations requested by workers due to pregnancy 
that will, in nearly all instances, not be considered to impose an undue hardship.  This is based 
on the fact that many pregnancy and childbirth-related limitations are temporary, common, and 
predictable and require only “simple and straightforward” workplace adjustments.  
 
  The Commission seeks comment on whether more accommodations should be 
included under this category.  In response, we urge the EEOC to 1) make clear that predictable 
assessments with respect to undue hardship should be extended to also include 
accommodations requested due to childbirth and related medical conditions; and 2) add the 
following accommodations to the list of predictable assessments: 
 

● Modifications to uniforms or dress code.  
● Minor physical modifications to a workstation, such as a fan or chair. 
● Allowing rest breaks, as needed.  
● Providing personal protective equipment.  
● Access to closer parking. 
● Eating or drinking at a workstation. 
● Time off to attend healthcare appointments related to pregnancy or childbirth. 

 
  The above accommodations are similar to the four accommodations the EEOC 
included in the proposed rule as “predictable assessments” as they, too, are simple and 
straightforward.  
 
  We also support the discussion in the proposed rule and proposed appendix 
regarding elements that cannot form the basis of an undue hardship defense, and make these 
additional suggestions:  
 

1) 1636.3(j)(5).  
a) We applaud the EEOC for stating in the proposed rule that an employer may 

not establish an undue hardship defense based on its “mere assumption or 
speculation that other employees might seek a reasonable accommodation, or 
even the same reasonable accommodation, in the future.”  This language 
should be strengthened so as to not suggest that an employer can establish 
such a defense in situations where it has more than a “mere assumption or 
speculation” that other employees will request accommodation.  Regardless of 
its level of certainty, an employer should never be allowed to deny an 
accommodation requested by any individual employee based on fears that it 
will have to provide reasonable accommodations to other workers in the future 
– whether the employer’s belief is speculative or grounded in fact.  Each 
accommodation decision must be made based on the need of the individual 
worker requesting the accommodation and the circumstances at hand.  

b) We applaud the EEOC for making clear “that a covered entity that receives 
numerous requests for the same or similar accommodation at the same 



Mr. Raymond Windmiller  October 10, 2023 
 

- 16 - 
 

time…cannot deny all of them simply because processing the volume of current 
or anticipated requests is, or would be, burdensome or because it cannot grant 
all of them.”40  However, we urge the EEOC to remove the assertion that “The 
covered entity may point to past and cumulative costs or burden of 
accommodations that have already been granted to other employees when 
claiming the hardship posed by another request for the same or similar 
accommodation”41 and replace it with the following language: “The covered 
entity may not point to cumulative costs of accommodations that have already 
been granted to other employees when claiming the hardship. The undue 
hardship analysis must be done on a case-by-case basis.”  

c) We also encourage the Commission to add that 1) other workers’ fear or 
prejudice regarding the worker’s pregnancy, childbirth, or related condition, or; 
2) the possibility that the accommodation would negatively impact other 
workers’ morale, cannot constitute an undue hardship.  These examples are 
similar to examples explicitly included in the ADA’s Interpretive Guidance.42  

d) Moreover, the PWFA intentionally avoided including “direct threat” language 
from the ADA, and the EEOC should make clear that any claims of undue 
hardship based on claims of direct threat are invalid.43  

e) Finally, the fact that a worker has or has previously received an accommodation 
for pregnancy, disability, or both should not be a valid reason to claim undue 
hardship.  Allowing such claims would violate the purposes of both PWFA and 
the ADA by penalizing qualified employees for using the accommodations they 
are entitled to under the law. 

 
  We applaud the EEOC for its comprehensive proposed rule on the Pregnant 
Workers Fairness Act, which fairly balances the interest of employers with the interest of workers 
to protect their pregnancy and reproductive health without compromising their health or their 
family’s economic security.  Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed 
regulation.  
 
        Sincerely, 
 
         
 
        International President 

 
40 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
41 88 Fed. Reg. 54786 (Aug. 11, 2023).  
42 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Enforcement Guidance on Reasonable Accommodation and 
Undue Hardship under the ADA, at text accompanying n. 117-18 (2002), 
http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcementguidance-reasonable-accommodation-and-unduehardship-under-
ada). 
43 See Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers’ Fairness Act (H.R. 2694) Before the Subcomm. on Civil 
Rights Human. & Servs. of the H. Comm. on Educ. & Labor, 116th Cong. (2019) (Questions for the record 
submitted by Dina Bakst, Co-Founder & Co-President, A Better Balance, at 12).