


BY INTERNET TO: Federal eRulemaking Portal; http://www.regulations.gov

February 2, 2023

Lauren McFerran, Chairman National Labor Relations Board
Attn: Roxanne L. Rothschild, Executive Secretary 1015 Half Street SE
Washington, DC 20570-0001

RE:	Docket No. NLRB-2022-0002, Proposed Employer Protection Restoration Rule/Free Choice - Employee Voice, 87 Fed. Reg. 66,890 (November 4, 2022)
(Comment Period Extended, 87 Fed. Reg. 73,705 (December 1, 2022))

Dear Chairman McFerran and Members of the Board:

      Representing 225,000 registered nurses ("RNs") across the nation, National Nurses United ("NNU") submits these comments in support of the Proposed Rule on "Representation- Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships," 87 Fed. Reg. 66,890 (November 4, 2022) (hereinafter "Proposed Rule"). The National Labor Relations Board (the "Board" or "NLRB") has statutory obligations of "encouraging the practice and procedure of collective bargaining" and "protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection." 29 U.S.C. § 151. Rather than advance these purposes and polices of the National Labor Relations Act (the "Act" or "NLRA"), the 2020 Final Rule that added §§ 103.20 - 103.22 to the Board's Rules and Regulations1 (hereinafter "2020 Rule"), has severely weakened such worker protections and has proven ineffective in achieving its purported goal. The Proposed Rule would reverse this misstep by returning to the Board's historical practices for processing representation petitions. NNU therefore supports the Proposed Rule and urges the Board to implement it. The proposed reversal of the 2020 Rule's changes to blocking charge policy and the voluntary recognition bar effectuates the purposes of the NLRA and remedies the legal uncertainty caused by the 2020 rule's failure to comport with the Administrative Procedure Act (the "APA"), 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A), and the Constitution.

I. Blocking Charge Policy
      A mere four months after the Act was declared constitutional,2 the Board developed its blocking charge policy. In United States Coal & Coke Co., 3 NLRB 398 (1937), the union filed a petition to represent a bargaining unit of the employer's employees, and a decision and direction


1 "Representation - Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction-Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships," RIN 3142-AA16, 85 Fed. Reg. 18,366 (April 1, 2020)
2 NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U.S. 1 (1937).


of election issued. After filing the petition, the union filed unfair labor practice charges, alleging the employer was engaged in unlawful conduct that would interfere with the election and later requested that the Board postpone the election pending its investigation of the allegations. The Board held that "[t]o insure to the employees of the Company a free choice in selecting representatives for the purposes of collective bargaining, we hereby direct that the election which on August 26, 1937, was directed by us to be held among the employees of the [Company] be postponed until further notice." Id. at 399. This sensible decision not to conduct an election while potential unfair labor practice conduct was occurring, pending the outcome of the investigation of the unfair labor practice allegations, was the Board's policy for over 80 years until the 2020 Rule became effective on July 31, 2020.

      In its August 12, 2019 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the Board proposed to change its blocking charge policy, such that a vote would be conducted and ballots impounded until unfair labor practice determinations are made through its Orwellian-titled, "NLRB Election Protection Rule," 84 Fed. Reg. 39,930 (August 12, 2019). However, the final 2020 Rule that resulted from this rulemaking went a good deal further, substantially eliminating the Board's blocking policy in the vast majority of cases. Specifically, the 2020 Rule requires, in all but a limited subset of cases, elections to be held and "ballots to be counted immediately after the conclusion of the election," and only provides for "the certification of the election results" to be held "in abeyance pending the resolution of the unfair labor practice charge." 85 Fed. Reg. 18,380 (April 1, 2020). Moreover, in the limited subset of charges that can delay the counting of election results,3 the 2020 Rule provides that elections will be held and ballots impounded, but that "the impoundment will last for only up to 60 days from the conclusion of the election," at which point "the ballots shall be promptly opened and counted" unless a charge has issued or the compliant is dismissed or withdrawn. 85 Fed. Reg. 18,380 (April 1, 2020).

      The changes to blocking charge policy made by the 2020 Rule are entirely inconsistent with the Act, and their implementation was marred by serious procedural flaws. The Proposed Rule seeks to revoke these changes and return NLRB blocking charge policy to the state it existed prior to the enactment of the 2020 Rule. For these reasons, as discussed below, NNU supports the Proposed Rule's contemplated changes to NLRB blocking charge policy.

A. The Changes to Blocking Charge Policy Implemented by the 2020 Rule Are Inconsistent with the Act.

      The 2020 Rule not only overturned over 80 years of Board precedent without evidentiary justification, but necessarily requires that workers, who have been subjected to coercive employer unfair labor practices, cast their ballots in an NLRB representation election before such unlawful conduct, and its effects, have been cured. Moreover, in the vast majority of the cases, ballots are counted and the tainted election results are made available, creating the impression

3 "[T]hose that allege violations of Section 8(a)(1) and 8(a)(2) or Section 8(b)(1)(A) of the Act and that challenge the circumstances surrounding the petition or the showing of interest submitted in support of the petition, and those that allege that an employer has dominated a union in violation of Section 8(a)(2) and that seek to disestablish a bargaining relationship." 85 Fed. Reg. 18,380 (April 1, 2020).


that the outcome was inevitable and the results justified, even when the Board ultimately concludes that the election must be rerun because it was conducted in coercive conditions. Such a change to existing policy is not only irrational given the Board's duty to ensure "laboratory conditions"4 for conducting its representation proceedings, but would interfere with employees' Section 7 activity, in and of itself, by requiring workers to cast their ballots in an NLRB election under coercive conditions. Such interference is then compounded yet again when the misleading ballot count is disclosed, thereby tainting future rerun elections by inaccurately depicting the bargaining unit's support for the union. It is hard to conceive of a procedure less in keeping with the Board's foundational observation that "[i]n election proceedings, it is the Board's function to provide a laboratory in which an experiment may be conducted, under conditions as nearly ideal as possible, to determine the uninhibited desires of the employees." General Shoe Corp., 77 NLRB 124, 126-127 (1948).

      While the 2020 Rule's change to blocking charge policy is transparently focused on speeding up the processing of petitions to decertify a union, such damage to employees' Section 7 rights, by requiring a Board election to be conducted, and in many cases ballots to be counted, under unlawfully coercive conditions, will occur whether the petition at issue is an RC petition for union certification, an employee-filed RD petition to decertify the union, or an employer- initiated RM petition. In the RD or RM context, an employer may have initiated the decertification effort or may have engaged in unfair labor practices that caused employee disaffection from the union, yet the 2020 Rule requires employees to cast their ballots, and in many cases confront the misleading results of such an election, under such circumstances. Such results will inevitably be tainted by the employer's violations of the Act and thus must be discarded, resulting not only in wasted resources and eroded faith in the efficacy of the Act, but also potentially delaying the holding of a meaningful election beyond the date it would have otherwise been conducted if not for the unnecessary, tainted election.

      Moreover, arguments in opposition to the Proposed Rule and in support of the 2020 Rule ignore that unions may file blocking charges in initial organizing campaigns, when employers often respond to the organizing campaign by engaging in unfair labor practices that could interfere with a free choice in a Board election - the concern articulated by the Board in United States Coal & Coke Co. in 1937, and which has been Board policy ever since. Indeed, the only argument offered in favor of the blocking charge portion of the 2020 Rule is that "any momentum in support of a valid petition may be lost." 87 Fed. Reg. 66,918 (Nov. 4, 2022).
However, as demonstrated through a FOIA request and case analysis conducted by the AFL- CIO, the overwhelming majority of blocking charges, and those causing the longest delays, are filed in RC cases by the petitioners themselves. AFL-CIO Comment, Appendix 4 (John-Paul Ferguson, Report: Assessing the Available Data Relevant to NLRM Proposed Rule, RIN 3142- AA16 (Jan. 8, 2020)). Under extant Board law, such petitioners have the right to request that the election proceed regardless of the charges. Thus, in the vast majority of cases, and those causing the longest delays, the sole justification for the 2020 Rule, preventing the loss of "momentum" in support of the petition, is, again, completely specious.


4 General Shoe Corp., 77 NLRB 124, 126-127 (1948).


      Furthermore, requiring employees to vote, and sometimes requiring the Board to count those votes, in any of these circumstances in which a rerun election would be required absent dismissal of the petition, is not only a waste of government and party resources, but, again, is independently destructive of workers' Section 7 rights. Surely, some employees experiencing the "chill" of such unremedied unfair labor practices would choose not to participate in the NLRB election in the first instance, others may cast a ballot under duress, while some employees would likely elect not to vote in a re-run election after having gone through the process of voting under coercive conditions. This is particularly true when the Board provides its stamp of approval on such coercive proceedings by counting the ballots and making those results known to the parties, thereby misleading workers into believing that those election results accurately capture the will of their fellow employees, or worse still, that the results were coerced and the coercive activity will not be remedied before the rerun election. As the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking acknowledged and the Supreme Court has observed, employees who have been required to express their support or opposition in a coercive atmosphere prior to a representation election "are unlikely to change their votes in the rerun election." 87 Fed. Reg. 66,908 (Nov. 4, 2022) (citing NLRB v. Savair Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 270, 277-78 (1973)).

      In Saviar, a union offered to waive the initiation fees of anyone who signed a recognition slip prior to an election. The union won the election, and the employer refused to bargain on the grounds that the election was conducted unfairly based on the union's promise. The Supreme Court agreed. The Court reasoned that an employee's "outward manifestation of support must often serve as a useful campaign tool . . . to convince other employees . . . if only because many employees respect their coworkers' views on the unionization issue." NLRB v. Savair Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 270, 277 (1973). Requiring employees to express their support in a coercive environment "paint[s] a false portrait of employee support during its election campaign." NLRB
v. Savair Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 270, 277 (1973). Similarly, the Court observed that "while it is correct that the employee who signs a recognition slip is not legally bound to vote for the union and has not promised to do so in any formal sense, certainly there may be some employees who would feel obliged to carry through on their stated intention to support the union." Id. at 277-
278. Thus, the Court concluded that inducing employees to disclose their position on unionization in a coercive atmosphere prior to a representation election may, in and of itself, taint that election. The same may be said of conducting a Board election in a coercive atmosphere and disclosing the vote count, as required by the 2020 Rule. Indeed, this impression is likely stronger here, given that employees are asked to make their positions known in an official Board election, which is purportedly final and binding, despite coercive employer activity that may be much more severe than a union's promise to waive an initiation fee.

B. Procedural Flaws in the 2020 Rulemaking Justify the Revocation of the Resulting Rules.

      In addition to the manifold policy concerns, it is also clear that the 2020 Rule was not properly implemented under the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706, "which governs the proceedings of administrative agencies and related judicial review," and requires an agency's actions to be the product of "'reasoned decisionmaking.'" Allentown Mack Sales & Serv., Inc. v. NLRB, 522 U.S. 359, 374 (1998) (citing Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut.


Automobile Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 52 (1983)). "Not only must an agency's decreed result be within the scope of its lawful authority, but the process by which it reaches that result must be logical and rational." Allentown Mack Sales & Serv., Inc. v. NLRB, 522 U.S at 374.

      As a preliminary matter, on July 15, 2020, the AFL-CIO and the Baltimore-DC Metro Building and Construction Trades Council sued the NLRB (D.D.C. No. 20-cv-1909) ("AFL-CIO II"), alleging that the entirety of the April 2020 Rule was invalid because, among other things, it is arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and in violation of the NLRA. While that suit remains pending, the multiple procedural and substantive shortcomings of the 2020 Rule and its implementation discussed throughout this comment make clear that it would likely succeed if it were to proceed to a determination on the merits.

      Furthermore, the changes made by the 2020 Rule to blocking policy are anything but logical and rational. Indeed, during the rulemaking leading to the 2020 Rule, the then Board majority acknowledged that since the 2015 implementation of the Election Rule, the number of blocked cases processed to an election dropped in 2016, 2017, and 2018, indicating that the rule was entirely unnecessary in the first place. Moreover, the rationale for the proposed change is ostensibly in furtherance of protecting employee free choice. 84 Fed. Reg. 39,938 (Aug. 12, 2019). But, again, the 2020 Rule requires NLRB elections to be conducted no matter the severity of the unfair labor practices that have been alleged or committed.5 How such a policy change could conceivably protect employee free choice is completely inscrutable.

      The lack of a logical or rational basis for the changes to blocking charge policy implemented in the 2020 Rule is further demonstrated by the fact that the Board relied on demonstrably false and misleading data in support of its rulemaking. Specifically, as exposed by Bloomberg Law, the Board majority relied on flawed data, which inflated statistics showing delay in holding elections when blocking charges were filed over the last three years, in order to justify its proposed change to blocking charge policy. Alex Ebert and Hassan A. Kanu, Federal Labor Board Used Flawed Data to Back Election Rule, Daily Lab. Rep. (BNA), Dec. 5, 2019, https://news.bloomberglaw.com/daily-labor-report/federal-labor-board-used-flawed-data-to-  back-union-election-rule-1 (last visited February 1, 2023). Likewise, as then-Member McFerran pointed out in her dissent, the Board majority's "paltry statistics tell us nothing about whether the petitions at issue deserved to be blocked, nor do they indicate whether, if the majority's proposed vote-and-impound procedure had been in place, the ballots cast in those cases would ever have been counted." 84 Fed. Reg. 39,947 (Aug. 12, 2019). While the Board majority enacting the 2020 Rule tacitly acknowledged this error in its final rule, it nevertheless failed to provide an alternative logical or rational basis for the changes it ultimately implemented. 85 Fed. Reg.
18,377 (Apr. 1, 2020). For this reason alone, implementation of the portion of the 2020 Rule related to blocking charge policy was unsound and should be withdrawn.


5 As then-Member McFerran points out, requiring elections in all cases, irrespective of the severity of an employer's unfair labor practices, does not comport with NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 614 (1969), where the Supreme Court expressed its approval of a Board-issued bargaining order based on majority support for the union demonstrated through authorization cards, when the severity of an employer's unfair labor practices rendered the possibility of a fair NLRB representation election to be slight.


      Worse still, as described above, the changes that were ultimately implemented in the 2020 Rule varied significantly from the 2019 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM). While the 2019 NPRM proposed a vote-and-impound procedure, the 2020 Rule substantially eliminated blocking charges in the vast majority of cases, requiring an election to be held and votes to be counted even in the context of pending ULP charges alleging serious misconduct. The public was never given notice of, or afforded an opportunity to comment on, the procedure that was actually implemented in the 2020 Rule. The notice and comment procedure is obviously rendered meaningless if, as here, the notice provided is insufficient to provide an opportunity for meaningful public comment.

      In addition to these significant evidentiary and procedural concerns, the changes to blocking policy wrought by the 2020 Rules are also not "in accordance with" the purposes and policies underlying the Act, in violation of the APA. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). The Board majority cites to the Court's statement in NLRB v. A.J. Tower Co. that the Board must adopt policies and rulemaking "in order that employees' votes may be recorded accurately, efficiently and speedily." 329 U.S. 324, 331 (1946). Although the 2020 Rule theoretically speeds the process of recording employees' votes if unfair labor practice charges are ultimately dismissed, this, of course, comes at the expense of accuracy and efficiency if unfair labor practices are found to have merit. Elections held in such circumstances are inaccurate because ongoing, uncured unfair labor practices taint the election results. This, in turn, results in an inefficient system because multiple elections may need to be held. Worse still, the accuracy of the rerun election is also jeopardized, as the taint of the initial election may, and often does, infect the rerun election when, as in most cases, the initial tainted ballots are counted and the results made public. As such, the change to blocking charge policy contained in the 2020 Rule is "not in accordance with law" under the APA. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A).

      The 2020 Rule also contravenes the purposes of the Act to the extent that it results in greater industrial strife. As the majority observes, it is well-established that one goal of the Act is to encourage "industrial peace and stability." 87 Fed. Reg. 66,890 at Fn. 5; See generally Auciello Iron Works, Inc. v. NLRB, 517 U.S. 781, 785 (1996). Yet, as the majority observes, the 2020 Rule "creates a perverse incentive for unscrupulous employers to commit unfair labor practices," which in turn, induces "unions to forego the Board's electoral machinery in favor of recognitional picketing and other forms of economic pressure, thereby exacerbating industrial strife and contravening the statutory policy favoring 'eliminat[ing] the causes of certain substantial obstructions to the free flow of commerce.'" Id. at 66,908-66,909 (citing 29 U.S.C.
151). In sum, the 2020 Rule's changes to blocking policy undermine important principles of the Act, and thus their implementation through rulemaking violates the APA.

      The proposed change to blocking policy additionally raises significant constitutional concerns. Again, Congress intended the Act to encourage the practice of collective bargaining and protect workers' full freedom of association in deciding whether to unionize. 29 U.S.C. §
151. The proposed change to blocking policy, which will require workers to cast their ballot in an NLRB election under coercive conditions, cannot be squared with the First and Fourteenth Amendments' protection of the right of association through union membership. Thomas v. Collins, 323 U.S. 516 (1945). And it raises substantial separation of powers concerns, as well as


grave concerns that the Executive Branch is failing to adhere to the Constitution's command that it "take care that the laws be faithfully executed[.]" U.S. CONST. art. II, § 3, cl. 4.

      The Proposed Rule corrects this misstep by restoring Board law to its state prior to the 2020 Rule. The changes to blocking policy implemented by the 2020 Rule impair workers' Section 7 rights and waste agency resources. Moreover, these changes lack clear logical or evidentiary support, were implemented without proper notice and opportunity for public comment, and jeopardize rights guaranteed by the Act and the US Constitution. By reverting to the previous framework, the Proposed Rule serves to effectuate the purposes of the NLRA while correcting the improvident changes created by the 2020 Rule. For all of these reasons, NNU firmly supports the Proposed Rule.

II. Voluntary Recognition Bar
      As with the change to blocking policy, the 2020 Rule's change to the Board's voluntary recognition bar doctrine sought to provide an answer to another non-existent problem, by upending a roughly 50-year-old policy, which had successfully furthered the purposes and policies of the Act, for no other apparent reason than to provide an opportunity for the ouster of a newly voluntarily recognized union. This change also resulted in a waste of government and party resources by requiring unnecessary elections to be conducted.

      An employer's voluntary recognition of a union as its employees' collective bargaining representative upon demonstration of majority support, as one lawful method of establishing a bargaining relationship, predates and was incorporated into the Act.6 Section 9(a) provides that "[r]epresentatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes, shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such unit for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, or other conditions of employment." 29
U.S.C. § 159(a). (Emphasis added.) Recognizing that "the parties must be afforded a reasonable time to bargain and to execute the contracts resulting from such bargaining," the Board established the recognition bar in Keller Plastics Eastern, Inc., 157 NLRB 583, 587 (1966), which precludes a challenge to the incumbent union's majority status for a reasonable period of time.7 Keller Plastics Eastern, Inc., 157 NLRB 583, 587 (1966) (unfair labor practice case context); see also Sound Contractors, 162 NLRB 364 (1966) (representation case context).

      In 2007, by case adjudication in Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 434 (2007), the Board abandoned the recognition bar doctrine until that case was overruled in Lamons Gasket Co., 357 NLRB 739 (2011), based on a thorough examination of the experience under Dana. The 2020 Rule, codified at 29 C.F.R § 103.21, essentially revived the Dana procedure when a union is voluntarily recognized, by requiring a 45-day window period after the voluntary recognition for

6 "Voluntary recognition itself predates the National Labor Relations Act and is undisputedly lawful under it."
Lamons Gasket Co., 357 NLRB 739, 740 (2011) (quoting Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 434, 436 (2007)).
7 The Board defines a reasonable period of time for bargaining, "during which the recognition bar will apply, to be no less than 6 months after the parties' first bargaining session and no more than 1 year." Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 748.


employees to file a decertification petition to oust the voluntarily recognized union. If the decertification notice is not posted for 45 days, the recognition bar will not apply and any subsequent collective bargaining agreement that is reached will not serve as a contract bar.8 29
C.F.R. § 103.21; 85 Fed. Reg. 18,439 (Apr. 1, 2020).

      In Lamons Gasket, the Board majority demonstrated that authorization cards were extremely reliable in discerning workers' true wishes concerning union representation, as voluntarily recognized unions were decertified in only 1.2 percent of the 1,333 cases where Dana notices were posted after voluntary recognition of a union. Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 742.
That voluntarily recognized unions were decertified under the Dana procedure even to this miniscule degree is of little moment. As the Lamons Gasket majority emphasized, the required decertification notice following the voluntary recognition "clearly suggests to employees that the Board considers their choice to be represented suspect and signals to employees that their choice should be reconsidered through the filing of a petition." Id. at 744. That the Dana procedure's NLRB decertification notice to employees provided government imprimatur for the notion that employees ought to consider ousting their newly recognized union cannot be denied, by placing "the Board's thumb decidedly on one side of what should be a neutral scale." Id. at 743.

      Without evidentiary justification, the Board returned to this short-lived, misguided procedure with the enactment of the 2020 Rule, again asserting its undertaking is in the interest of protecting employee free choice. However, the data gathered by the Board since the implementation of the 2020 Rule mirrors that collected under the Dana procedure, again demonstrating the reliability of authorization cards and showing that, in the vast majority of cases, employees reaffirm their choice to be represented by the union. Specifically, since the effective date of the 2020 Rule, 260 requests for recognition notices were filed with the Board, yet only one election petition was subsequently filed, and no elections were held. 87 Fed. Reg. 66,898 (Nov. 4, 2022). Thus, only 0.4 percent of recognition notice requests resulted in election petitions, and 0 percent of notices resulted in actual elections.9 Id. There therefore appears to be no evidentiary basis whatever for the belief that the 2020 Rule protects "employee free choice" - if anything, the data suggests the contrary, that authorization cards have been, and continue to be, an extremely accurate measure of employee support. Id.

      The lack of neutrality inherent in the procedure implemented by the 2020 Rule is further demonstrated by the fact that there is no similar procedure in analogous contexts involving demonstrations of opposition to union certification. As the Lamons Gasket majority stressed:

[i]n no other context does the Board require that employees be given notice of their right to change their minds about a recent exercise of statutory rights. For example, when an employer withdraws recognition from employees'


8 Under the Board's contract bar doctrine, a collective bargaining agreement with a term of up to three years bars an election to challenge the union's majority status for the duration of the contract, while a contract in excess of three years will serve as a bar to challenge the union's majority status for the first three years of the contract. General Cable Corp., 139 NLRB 1123 (1962).
9 Though, in one case, a union disclaimed interest after a petition was filed. 87 Fed. Reg. 66,898 (Nov. 4, 2022).


representative based on objective, but non-electoral evidence that the majority of employees no longer desire to be represented, the Board does not require that the employer post notice of employees' right to file a petition for an election to compel the employer to once again recognize the representative.

Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 743 (footnote omitted).

      Moreover, comparing how the Board majority considers "non-electoral evidence" of employees' wishes to obtain union representation through voluntary recognition versus the treatment of similar evidence to allow an employer to withdraw recognition from an incumbent union shows the Board majority's anti-union bias in the 2020 Rule. Until the Board adopted its current "election-preference position," the Board's adjudicated rules concerning the triggering of an employer's bargaining obligation and cessation of its bargaining obligation largely mirrored each other. The Board held until 1966 under its Joy Silk10 doctrine that an employer had a duty to bargain with a union upon demonstrating its majority support, unless the employer possessed a good faith doubt concerning the union's majority support, in which case it could insist on a Board election. The Board, however, gradually moved towards its current election-preference position,11 regarding the establishment of an employer's bargaining obligation, as approved by the Court in Linden Lumber Div., Summer & Co. v. NLRB, 419 U.S. 301, 310 (1974), which allows an employer to insist on an NLRB election before any bargaining obligation attaches.

      Concerning an employer's withdrawal of recognition from an incumbent union, an employer could lawfully do so under Celanese Corp., 95 NLRB 664 (1951), based on its good faith doubt as to the union's continuing majority support until Celanese was overruled by Levitz Furniture Co. of the Pacific, 333 NLRB 717 (2001). In Levitz, the Board held an employer may lawfully withdraw recognition from an incumbent union based on non-electoral evidence constituting "proof" that the union lost majority support, and simultaneously lowered the threshold for filing an employer RM petition to trigger an NLRB election from good faith doubt to good faith reasonable uncertainty. Id. at 725-728.

      Recently, in Johnson Controls, Inc., 368 NLRB No. 20 (2019), the same Board majority that implemented the 2020 Rule overruled Levitz, in part, by holding an employer's anticipatory withdrawal of recognition from an incumbent union within 90 days prior to expiration of its collective bargaining agreement with the union, based on non-electoral evidence constituting "proof" the incumbent union has lost majority support, to be lawful. Johnson Controls, Inc., 368 NLRB No. 20, slip op. at 9-10 (2019). The Johnson Controls majority, despite its reliance on non-electoral evidence to allow such an anticipatory withdrawal, held further that an employer may still lawfully withdraw recognition from the incumbent union, even if the union has



10 Joy Silk Mills, Inc., 85 NLRB 1263 (1949), enfd. as modified 185 F.2d 732 (D.C. Cir. 1950), cert. denied 341 U.S.
914 (1951).
11 See Aaron Brothers Company of California, 158 NLRB 1077 (1966). In 1969, in NLRB v. Gissel Packing, the Board announced to the Supreme Court in 1969 that "it had virtually abandoned the Joy Silk doctrine altogether." NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. at 594.


subsequently demonstrated prior to contract expiration it has in fact not lost the support of the majority of employees in the bargaining unit. Id., slip op. at 2.

      Perhaps even more troubling is the Johnson Controls majority's utter rejection of dissenting then-Member McFerran's suggestion that the Board should consider prohibiting employer withdrawal of recognition from an incumbent union based on non-electoral evidence and require employers to petition for a Board-conducted election if the employer believes an incumbent union no longer enjoys majority support. Id., slip op. at 16. Despite its purported concerns about the reliability of such non-electoral evidence in establishing a bargaining relationship, the Johnson Controls majority's response to then-Member McFerran's proposal was as follows: "[of] course, the dissent's agenda is far more ambitious. She proposes making an RM petition the employer's only recourse... we reject that proposal..." Id., slip op. at 5, fn. 26 (2019).12

      What rational reason could there be to express such concern about non-electoral evidence in the voluntary recognition context but not in the withdrawal of recognition context? There, of course, is none, demonstrating that the then Board majority's claim that its proposed change to the voluntary recognition bar was to ensure "that employee free choice has not been impaired by a process that is less reliable than Board elections[,]" 84 Fed. Reg. 39,938 (Aug. 12, 2019), is a subterfuge to undermine workers' right to union representation. This irrationality and lack of impartiality contravenes the purposes and policies of the NLRA, is "not in accordance with law" and violates the APA. 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). Such a course of action that led to the 2020 Rule is also arbitrary and capricious under 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A), as the Board majority's apparent conclusion that there is truly a concern over the reliability of non-electoral evidence in the voluntary recognition context, yet not in the withdrawal of recognition context, "is so implausible that it could not be ascribed to a difference in view or the product of agency expertise." Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass'n of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983). The 2020 Rule's change to the voluntary recognition bar also raises the same substantial constitutional concerns discussed above regarding the proposed change to blocking policy. For all of these reasons, NNU supports the Proposed Rule's restoration of the Board's pre-2020 Rule voluntary recognition bar doctrine.

III. Conclusion
      For all of the foregoing reasons, NNU strongly supports the Proposed Rule. In no manner has the Board demonstrated that the 2020 Rule's radical changes to blocking charge policy and


12 That the incumbent union may file an NLRB election petition under this scheme within 45 days from the date that the employer informs the union of its anticipatory withdrawal to "re-establish" its majority in no way diminishes the Board majority's flagrant double standard. Johnson Controls, Inc., 368 NLRB No. 20, slip op. at 9-10. Again, the Johnson Controls Board majority is willing to rely on non-electoral evidence to allow an employer to withdraw recognition from the incumbent union (the "less reliable" evidence as the Board majority describes it in the Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. 39,938), refuses to consider countervailing non-electoral evidence from the union, and rejects out of hand then-Member McFerran's suggestion that Board law should require an employer to rely on electoral evidence to lawfully withdraw recognition.


the recognition bar doctrine are necessary or are in furtherance of the purposes and policies of the Act. The 2020 rules have been severely detrimental to workers' rights and will likely be enjoined under judicial review if the pending cases are allowed to continue.

      Workers deserve much better from the Agency charged with administering the statute Congress enacted to protect and promote the right of workers to freely engage in collective bargaining. By enacting the Proposed Rule, the Board will be better equipped to accomplish this challenging task and fulfil its mission to protect workplace democracy.

      In adopting the proposed rule, the Board should make clear that by rescinding the sections of the rules and regulations adopted by the 2020 Rules, that applicable Board precedent developed prior to the implementation of the 2020 Rule will again be in full force and effect.
Alternatively, if the Board replaces current Section 103.21 by codifying the rule in Lamons Gasket, it should make clear that this codification is intended to make the rules more transparent, and to parallel the codification of Section 9(c)(3) of the Act.

Sincerely,

/s/ Micah L. Berul

Micah L. Berul Legal Counsel
National Nurses United


