
NATIONAL RIGHT TO WORK LEGAL DEFENSE FOUNDATION, INC.
8001 BRADDOCK ROAD, SUITE 600, SPRINGFIELD, VIRGINIA 22160

RAYMOND J. LAJEUNESSE, JR.
Vice President & Legal DirectorFAX (703) 321-8239
Home Page http://www.nrtw.org
E-mail rjl@nrtw.orgVia electronic filingFebruary 2, 2023Roxanne L. Rothschild Executive Secretary
National Labor Relations Board
1015 Half Street SE Washington, D.C. 20570-0001
Re: Comments of the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation Regarding: Representation- Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships, 87 Fed. Reg. 66890 (proposed Nov. 4, 2022)

Dear Ms. Rothschild:

      The National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation submits the following comments in op- position to the National Labor Relations Board's proposed amendments in its Representation-Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective-Bargaining Relationships, 87 Fed. Reg. 66890 (proposed Nov. 4, 2022). The Foundation is uniquely situated to comment on and oppose these rules, as its staff attorneys have represented individual decertification pe- titioners in many of the leading cases in this area of the law. E.g., Mountaire Farms, Inc., 370 NLRB No. 110 (Apr. 21, 2021); Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 434 (2007); Lamons Gasket Co., 357 NLRB 739
(2011); Johnson Controls, Inc., 368 NLRB No. 20 (July 3, 2019); Rieth-Riley Constr. Co., Inc., 371 NLRB No. 109 (June 15, 2022). Foundation lawyers provide pro bono representation in a large percent- age of the Board's current decertification cases. To take just one recent snapshot, Foundation staff attor- neys represent approximately 50% of the employees who filed decertification petitions in the month of December 2022.

      The Board majority proposes to rescind the entirety of the Election Protection Rule, Representa- tion-Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction-Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships, 85 Fed. Reg. 18366 (Apr. 1, 2020). The Election Protection Rule consists of three additions to the Board's Regulations. First, it amended 29 C.F.R. § 103.20, overturning the prior "blocking charge" policy in order to streamline and prevent undue delay in representation elections. Second, it added 29 C.F.R. § 103.21, requiring unions and employers who seek to utilize the "voluntary recognition bar" to notify employees and give them a forty-five day window period to seek an election should they wish to challenge the union's allegation of majority support. Third, it added 29 C.F.R.
§ 103.22, which requires employers and unions in the construction industry to retain proof of majority support beyond mere contract language if the employer recognizes the union as a Section 9(a) repre- sentative without an election.

      As discussed below, the Election Protection Rule properly protects employee free choice to se- lect or reject a representative as well as other policies of the NLRA. It should not be rescinded. The Board's proposed rule improperly focuses on union institutional interests to the detriment of employee


rights, which the National Labor Relations Act ("Act") is specifically designed to protect. In the Act, Congress declared that employee free choice precedes union recognition, not the other way around.

COMMENTS

I. The Board Should Not Rescind the Blocking Charge Amendments to Section 103.20 in the Election Protection Rule.

A. The proposed return to the prior blocking charge policy is inconsistent with the Act and harms employee free choice.

      The Board's proposed return to the former blocking charge policy is inconsistent with the Act's text, the right of employee free choice the Act guarantees, and the Act's stated policies. Section 7 of the Act could not be clearer: "Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist la- bor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing . . . and shall also have the right to refrain from any or all of such activities   " 29 U.S.C. § 157 (emphasis added).
Similarly, NLRA Section 9(a) provides that "[r]epresentatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes, shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such unit." 29 U.S.C. § 159(a) (emphasis added). Thus, the Act permits exclusive representation only if a majority of employees support that union's rep- resentation. See Int'l Ladies' Garment Workers' Union v. NLRB, 366 U.S. 731 (1961); Lee Lumber & Bldg. Material Corp. v. NLRB, 117 F.3d 1454, 1463 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (Sentelle, J., concurring). Without the actual support of a majority of employees, exclusive representation is unlawful. Garment Workers', 366 U.S. at 737-39.

      Similarly, the Act's stated policy is "protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of asso- ciation, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection." 29 U.S.C.
§ 151 (emphasis added). Thus, the policy of the Act is not to promote unionism carte blanche; rather, it is to protect employees in their choice of representation. The D.C. Circuit correctly recognized:

The raison d'être of the National Labor Relations Act's protections for union representa- tion is to vindicate the employees' right to engage in collective activity and to empower employees to freely choose their own labor representatives   So under Section 9(a), the
rule is that the employees pick the union; the union does not pick the employees.

Colo. Fire Sprinkler, Inc. v. NLRB, 891 F.3d 1031, 1038 (D.C. Cir. 2018); see also McCormick Constr. Co., 126 NLRB 1246, 1259-60 (1960) (quoting Shoreline Enters. of Am., Inc. v. NLRB, 262 F.2d 933, 944 (5th Cir. 1959)) ("The National Labor Relations Board is not just an umpire to referee a game be- tween an employer and a union. It is also a guardian of individual employees."); Lee Lumber, 117 F.3d at 1463 (Sentelle, J., concurring) (employee free choice is the "core principle of the Act") (quotation marks and citation omitted).

      To that end, Congress provided a mechanism for employees to vote via Board-conducted secret ballot elections on their choice of representative, and whether to be represented, with few statutory limi- tations. 29 U.S.C. § 159; see also Levitz Furniture Co. of the Pac., Inc., 333 NLRB 717, 725-26 (2001); Johnson Controls, Inc., 368 NLRB No. 20 (July 3, 2019). A return to the Board's prior blocking charge policy is inconsistent with these fundamental principles because blocking charges-which can be filed


by an unpopular incumbent union strategically to delay its ouster-put union institutional and pecuniary interests ahead of the employee rights the Board is charged with protecting.

      The Board's proposed rule asserts that a return to the former blocking charge policy more properly "balances the Board's interests in protecting employee free choice, preserving laboratory con- ditions in Board-conducted elections, and resolving questions concerning representation expeditiously." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66903. The proposed rule posits that the blocking charge policy operates more efficient- ly because it temporarily blocks elections when laboratory conditions have allegedly been destroyed. However, in practice, the former blocking charge policy operated more broadly, preventing or delaying for months or years many valid decertification petitions. Many employees believed the NLRB was oper- ating an "incumbent protection racket" that nullified their rights while maintaining the power of unpopu- lar incumbent unions which often continued to collect compulsory dues during the delayed process. Un- der the former and newly-proposed blocking charge rules, any union-filed unfair labor practice charge invariably and automatically leads to the petition being held in abeyance for an inordinate and unpre- dictable length of time while the Regional office "investigates" the union allegations.

      Although the 2014 Election Rules1 (and now the proposed rules) gave Regional Directors discre- tion to demand evidence supporting an unfair labor practice charge before blocking the election, in the experience of our attorneys, Regional Directors invariably blocked decertification elections immediately upon the filing of a charge, regardless of the charge's substance or the nature of the evidence. Founda- tion attorneys have represented hundreds of decertification petitioners and they have not participated in a single case where a Regional Director declined to automatically block an election based upon a union's mere allegation of unlawful employer conduct. The bottom line is this: the former blocking charge poli- cy incentivized unions to file meritless or even frivolous unfair labor practice charges because they know the election will be delayed. And what incumbent union doesn't want to delay the date of its po- tential ouster?

      The Board claims that under the former blocking charge policy it retained discretion to direct an election, notwithstanding the pendency of an unfair labor practice charge, for two reasons: (1) the charge would not affect employee free choice; and (2) the charge was filed for purposes of delay. 87 Fed. Reg. at 66893. The Board cites a single case allegedly supporting each rationale. Id. It is telling that the two cases the Board cites are 59 and 74 years old, respectively. Id. (citing Holt Bros., 146 NLRB 383, 384 (1964); Columbia Pictures Corp., 81 NLRB 1313, 1314-15, n.9 (1949)). It is also telling that both of those cases involved certification elections,2 situations where blocking charges are rarely filed or al- lowed, and where cases regularly proceed post-haste to an election regardless of the unfair labor practice allegations against the union. The citations to Holt Bros. and Columbia Pictures are further evidence of the Board's application of the blocking charge policy almost uniformly in favor of granting or maintain- ing exclusive representation, rather than its truly being the neutral arbiter in favor of employee free choice of representation.

      This "blocking" policy-favoring union interests in not being decertified over employee interests in free choice-has been "widely criticized" by the courts. Templeton v. Dixie Color Printing Co., 444

1 Representation-Case Procedures, 79 Fed. Reg. 74308, 74490 (Dec. 15, 2014) (referred to as "2014 Election Rules")
2 Columbia Pictures pre-dates the Board's policy of noting cases as RC or RD, and merely notes it is a representation case by the use of "R." However, it appears that the case dealt with an intervening un- ion's attempt to remove a rival union and certify itself as exclusive representative.


F.2d 1064, 1068 n.2 (5th Cir. 1971) (citing NLRB v. Minute Maid Corp., 283 F.2d 705, 710 (5th Cir., 1960); Gebhardt-Vogel Tanning Co., 389 F.2d at 75. In NLRB v. Minute Maid Corp., the court stated: "the Board is [not] relieved of its duty to consider and act upon an application for decertification for the sole reason that an unproved charge of an unfair practice has been made against the employer. To hold otherwise would put the union in a position where it could effectively thwart the statutory provisions permitting a decertification when a majority is no longer represented." 283 F.2d at 710; see also T- Mobile v. NLRB, 717 Fed. App'x 1, 3-5 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (Sentelle, J., dissenting). These courts were correct and the Board's policy of protecting incumbent unions and incentivizing their delaying tactics at the expense of employee free choice is wrong and unlawful.

B. The Board's proposed rule fails to analyze the results of the Election Protection Rule in practice, which undermines its conclusions that a return to the old and outmoded block- ing charge rule is necessary.

       The proposed rule makes no attempt to justify a return to the prior blocking charge policy based on any results or data from the current Election Protection Rule. If the Board looks to the representation cases processed under the Election Protection Rule, it would see that many of its concerns are ephemer- al. Indeed, the Board itself has remedied any perceived defects in the Election Protection Rule by its re- cent decisions applying that rule, so no further modifications are necessary.

1. The proposed rule fails to account for the handling of unfair labor practice charges under Rieth-Riley.

      The recent decision in Rieth-Riley Construction Co., 371 NLRB No. 109, slip op. at 2 (June 15, 2022), undermines the Board's rationale for this proposed rule because that decision allows for a "merits dismissal" of a decertification petition if there is actually a finding of merit to an unfair labor practice charge alleging conduct "inherently inconsistent with the petition." Id. In other words, if the Regional Director finds merit to a charge that alleges egregious conduct such that an election should not proceed, the Regional Director can dismiss the petition-even under the Election Protection Rule. And in the wake of Rieth-Riley, the Board has affirmed Regional Directors' use of this rationale to dismiss peti- tions. See, e.g., Station Casinos LLC d/b/a NP Red Rock LLC, No. 28-RD-292426, 2022 WL 16837336 (Nov. 7, 2022). Thus, Regional Directors already have a powerful tool to dismiss petitions, subject to reinstatement, under the current Election Protection Rule, when they believe employer conduct has in- terfered with laboratory conditions.

      Yet the proposed rule fails to discuss how Rieth-Riley completely undermines the rationale for rescinding the Election Protection Rule. If a decertification election is to be blocked (which the Founda- tion opposes), that block should at least be based on a Regional Director's formal merit determination, not mere allegations made by a self-interested union attempting to delay or prevent its potential ouster.

      With Rieth-Riley in mind, the dissent's baseball analogy is accurate: the Board's rationale is akin to "saying that all baseball games should be delayed indefinitely because some games, if played, would be called on account of rain." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66919. Employees seeking a decertification election should not be subject to indefinite and arbitrary "rain-delays" caused by their opponent. Such a system makes it "easier for incumbent unions bent on self-preservation to frustrate the will of the majority." Id.


2. 	Elections held under the Election Protection Rule demonstrate that the proposed rule serves only to incentivize non-meritorious union unfair labor practice charges.

      The Board's proposed rule suggests the possibility that holding an election while an unfair labor practice charge is pending imposes unnecessary costs on the Board and the parties, and might not re- solve the question of representation. See 87 Fed. Reg. at 69903. This is incorrect for at least two reasons.

      First, the Election Protection Rule's vote and impound procedures have not resulted in a wave of elections that have been impounded and the results not counted. The Foundation knows of only three cases in over two years in which that has occurred. See Rieth-Riley Construction Co., 371 NLRB No. 109 (June 15, 2022); Hood River Distillers, Inc., No. 19-RD-271944 (Board Decision Nov. 2, 2022); Spanish Broadcasting Sys., No. 31-RD-299877. The lack of dismissed election results demonstrates the Board's fears of unresolved questions of representation are unfounded. Instead, the Election Protection Rule has incentivized unions and other parties to file unfair labor practice charges only in situations that actually warrant such filings, rather than as a strategic delaying tactic. Consequently, Regional Directors are not bogged down by investigations of charges that unnecessarily delay the election, and can quickly enter into stipulated election agreements so employees can vote on their choice of representative.

      Second, the Board claims that the Election Protection Rule risks holding futile elections, thereby imposing unnecessary costs on the Board and the parties. Yet the Board cites no data from the applica- tion of the Election Protection Rule to support its hypothetical fear of holding too many futile elec- tions-despite the fact the rule has been in effect since 2020. If the Board has no data regarding unnec- essary costs and futile elections, that cannot be a justification for amending the current Election Protec- tion Rule. As noted above, the Foundation is aware of only three instances in two years of an election being held without resolving the question of representation.

      To the contrary, the Board's proposed rule will impose significantly higher costs on the Board and parties because it incentivizes the filing of strategic and non-meritorious unfair labor practice charg- es that must be investigated. Even based on now Chairman McFerran's data in her April 2020 dissent,3 in FY 2016 and 2017 Regions blocked forty-five petitions because of non-meritorous charges. Dissent App'x, NLRB, https://www.nlrb.gov/sites/default/files/attachments/basic-page/node-7583/member- mcferran-dissent-appendix.pdf. Thus, Regions investigated at least forty-five unfair labor practice charges over those two years (an average of 22.5 investigations per year), which incurred significant costs for the parties and the Board. For comparison, based on a survey of information available on the Board's website for decertification petitions filed in 2021, there were only seven cases that involved un- fair labor practice allegations.4 Of those cases, the Regional Directors dealt with five without holding an

3 That data is not entirely accurate because it counts settlements as "meritorious" charges. See 87 Fed. Reg. 66894 n.10. Parties can decide to settle charges, regardless of their merit, particularly if the party is concerned about undue delay for an election-a delay which would be exacerbated by litigating a charge. See Pinnacle Foods Grp., LLC, 368 NLRB No. 97 (Oct. 21, 2019) (settlement with a non- admissions clause cannot block an election).
4 ExxonMobil Corp., 16-RD-283976 (ballots impounded); ExxonMobil Chem. Americas, 15-RD-277466 (Letter from Executive Sec. July 6, 2021) (Regional Director blocked the election while an unfair labor practice was pending; charges withdrawn and processing of petition resumed, same outcome as pro- posed rule); Wendt Corp., 03-RD-276476, 371 NLRB No. 159 (Sept. 30, 2022) (Regional Director dis- missed petition without holding election, same outcome as proposed rule); Mgmt. & Training Corp., 01- RD-275435 (Board Order (Aug. 11, 2021) (Board denied union request to block the election, then


election, or prior to holding the election, so the outcome would have been the same under the proposed rule. In two instances, the votes were impounded, one of which remains pending. Even assuming some cases are incomplete on the Board's website, this data demonstrates the prior (and proposed) blocking charge policy incentivizes an excess of non-meritorious unfair labor practice filings, and thereby creates unnecessary costs on the Board and the parties to the litigation.

      In short, the proposed rule states (apparently inadvertently) the correct conclusion: "the proposed amendments run the risk of imposing unnecessary costs on the parties and the Board." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66903.

3. 	Rerun elections provide a tested and sufficient remedy for unfair labor practices that undermine employee choice.

      The Board claims its proposed rule will assist employee choice because conducting an election while an unfair labor practice charge is pending could create a "coercive atmosphere." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66903. The proposed rule further states that conducting a rerun election after the unfair labor practices are remedied would result in "a substantial risk that the tainted election will compound the effects of the unfair labor practices, because employees who voted against union representation under the influence of the employer's coercion are unlikely to change their votes in the rerun election" Id. at 66908. The dis- sent correctly recognizes the error in that rationale. Namely, the Board's longstanding and unchallenged remedy for sustained objections to the conduct of an election is to set aside the election and order a rerun election. Id. at 66919-20. The Board's rationale is arbitrary because it is inconsistent with its past and current practice of ordering a new election as a complete remedy where misconduct tainted the first elec- tion-including misconduct that is an unfair labor practice.

4. Foundation cases demonstrate the harm to employee free choice that accompanies the proposed rule.

      The proposed rule states: "we also question the April 2020 Board's premise that its amendment requiring elections to be held in all cases involving requests to block is necessary to preserve employee free choice because the blocking charge policy deprives employees of free choice in those cases where petitions are blocked by nonmeritorious charges." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66903. The Board majority argues: "the benefits of not allowing elections to proceed under the clouds of an unfair labor practice far out- weigh any such delay." But the Board fails to cite to a single example of that scenario occurring since the implementation of the Election Protection Rule. The Board should not arbitrarily change its rules based on speculation about what might occur; rather, it should have some data indicating what is actual- ly occurring if that is the basis for the rule change.

      The solution the Board proposes does not provide protection against union abuse of blocking charges as the Board imagines. Although the proposed rule purports to require unions to file "offers of proof" in support of blocking charges, in practice, under the 2014 Election Rule, such offers required little, perhaps no more than the names of the potential witnesses and a summary of each witness's antic-

Member McFerran noted in a concurrence that the union's request would have been denied under the former blocking charge policy); Cheetah Precision, LLC, 18-RD-274308 (petition dismissed prior to election, same outcome as proposed rule); Hood River Distillers, Inc., Case No. 19-RD-271944; Neises Constr. Corp., 13-RD-271580 (petition dismissed prior to an election, same outcome as proposed rule).


ipated testimony. In the Foundation's experience, Regional Directors reflexively blocked elections in all such cases, even when the underlying offers of proof were weak and the charges patently frivolous, mi- nor, or false. Below is just a small (but highly representative) sample of Foundation-assisted cases demonstrating how the prior blocking charge policy was employed by unions and Regional Directors to the detriment of employee free choice:

      a. In Scott Brothers Dairy/Chino Valley Dairy Products, No. 31-RD-001611, Petitioner Chris Hastings filed a decertification petition on August 17, 2010. The union filed blocking charges in Case Nos. 31-CA-029944 (filed Sept. 21, 2010) and 31-CA-030024 (filed Nov. 10, 2010), claiming the employer was unlawfully involved in the petition. Based on these spurious and unproven charges, the Regional Director blocked the election for several months while he investigated. Eventually, the charges were either dismissed as meritless or voluntarily withdrawn to avoid a merit dismissal. The election was not held until August 10, 2011 - a full year after the decertification petition was filed. The union lost the election overwhelmingly by a vote of 54-20, but managed to retain its exclusive bargaining power and compulsory dues collections for an entire year due to filing these non-meritorious charges.

      b. In ADT Security Services (IBEW Local 110), No. 18-RD-206831 (Dec. 20, 2017) (order denying review), Petitioner Lance Oelrich filed a decertification petition with signatures he collected in a hotel parking lot following a regularly scheduled employer quarterly meeting.5 Oelrich collected other signatures on his own time, away from work. IBEW Local 110, however, filed a blocking charge alleg- ing that the decertification petition was circulated during a company-wide mandatory meeting, ostensi- bly with employer support. The Region immediately and reflexively blocked the petition. Oelrich and some of his supporters filed a Request for Review, providing affidavits unequivocally stating that the employees collected the petition on their own time (not during a company meeting) and without em- ployer support or encouragement. IBEW eventually withdrew its unfounded charges against ADT, pre- sumably to avoid their dismissal. Yet, despite the fact that its blocking charges were false if not frivo- lous, the union's delaying tactics succeeded in preventing an election for several months.6

      c. In Arizona Public Service Co. (USPA, Local 08), No. 28-RD-194724 (June 27, 2017) (order denying review), Petitioner Wayne Evans filed a decertification petition on March 13, 2017.7 On March 20, 2017, the Regional Director halted the election based on blocking charges the union filed that alleged the petition was collected during work time and with employer supervision. The employees who collected the petition filed a Request for Review and submitted affidavits demonstrating they had col- lected the signatures during non-work time and at non-work locations, away from management person- nel. The union eventually withdrew its blocking charges on May 31, 2017, presumably to avoid their dismissal. The Region finally held an election and the union lost.8 Yet, aided by its spurious blocking charges, the unpopular incumbent union was able to delay its ouster for nearly three months.



5	All	relevant	facts	are	taken	from	Oelrich's	Request	for	Review,	available	at
http://apps.nlrb.gov/link/document.aspx/09031d45825b4be0.
6 ADT eventually withdrew recognition from the IBEW because Oelrich had collected a decertification petition signed by the majority of his co-workers.
7 All relevant facts are taken from Evans' Request for Review, available at
http://apps.nlrb.gov/link/document.aspx/09031d45823f949b.
8 A rerun election was agreed to after the union filed exceptions to the conduct of the first election. See Arizona Pub. Serv. Co., https://www.nlrb.gov/case/28-RD-194724 (last visited, Jan. 31, 2023).


      d. In Pinnacle Foods Group, LLC (UFCW Local 881), No. 14-RD-226626, Robert Gentry filed a decertification petition on August 31, 2018. On September 7, the union filed a charge alleging the employer: (1) assisted in the solicitation and circulation of the petition; (2) bargained in bad faith for a first contract; (3) unilaterally changed terms and conditions of employment; and (4) issued discretionary discipline without notifying the union. The Region granted the union's request to block the election the same day the charge was filed. Upon investigation, the Region issued a consolidated complaint alleging relatively minor and picayune violations of the Act related to the scheduling of bargaining and minor unilateral changes in scheduling work. Importantly, the Region did not issue a complaint on the union's initial and far more serious allegations that the employer assisted with the solicitation of the signatures. Chairman Ring and Member Kaplan correctly noted that the timing of the blocking charge suggested it was filed with the primary purpose of delaying the decertification. See Pinnacle Foods Grp., Board Or- der Denying Review, No. 14-RD-226626 (Feb. 4, 2019).

      e. In Apple Bus Co., Nos. 19-RD-203378 and 19-RD-2166369, Elizabeth Chase filed her first decertification petition on July 31, 2017. The petition was dismissed due to the Board's "successor bar" doctrine. See 2017 WL 6403493 (Dec. 14, 2017). After the successor bar expired, on March 15, 2018, Chase filed a second decertification petition. Between the filing of the petition on March 15, 2018 and March 28, 2019, Teamsters Local 959 filed nine different blocking charges alleging unlawful em- ployer misconduct. The Region blocked the election despite Chase filing three separate Requests for Review. Local 959 ultimately withdrew seven of its meritless charges. Among the charges withdrawn were baseless allegations that Apple Bus aided Chase in the collection of her petition. The remaining minor allegations were settled with a non-admissions clause, which allowed an election to be scheduled after the notice-posting period. Before an election could take place after settlement, on March 28, 2019, Local 959 filed a new unfair labor practice charge, which was resolved on May 14, 2019, by settlement with non-admissions clause. But before an election could be conducted, between July and August, Local 959 filed an additional five blocking charges. In total, the union filed 15 charges against Apple Bus and withdrew over half of them due to their obvious lack of merit. Chase made five different attempts to ap- peal requesting the Board to modify its blocking charge policy and to grant the employees an election. Despite majority support for the decertification petition since March 2018, the Region continued to postpone the decertification election based on the notion that some connection might exist between the petition and allegedly unlawful employer conduct. In November 2019, over two years from the filing of Chase's first petition, the union disclaimed interest rather than face the voters it claimed to represent.

      These are just a few examples of unions filing frivolous and strategically-timed unfair labor prac- tice charges under the prior blocking charge regime, simply to delay decertification elections. Under the former blocking charge policy to which this Board seeks to return, there is simply no downside for un- ions to file frivolous charges containing false allegations because they know: (1) the decertification elec- tion will be automatically blocked for at least several months, if not longer; (2) it costs almost nothing to file an unfair labor practice charge, which the Regional Director will be compelled to investigate at no cost to the union; and (3) in the course of the investigation the Region may possibly find a reason to is- sue a complaint on some issue unrelated to the employees' petition and disaffection with the union, and then completely block the election. Again, what incumbent union official does not want to delay the day of reckoning in an election that could oust him?



9 All relevant facts are taken from Chase's Fourth and Fifth Request for Review, available at
https://www.nlrb.gov/case/19-RD-216636.


C. Practical Implications of the Blocking Charge Rules Further Frustrate Employee Rights

1. The blocking charge policy ignores employee desires.

      The proposed rule-and Regional Directors' application of it in the past-ignore the fact that employee petitioners and other bargaining unit members may wish to be free from union representation independent of any alleged employer infractions. See Tenneco Auto., Inc. v. NLRB, 716 F.3d 640, 648 (D.C. Cir. 2013) (quoting Lexus of Concord, Inc., 343 NLRB 851, 852 (2004)) (explaining "not every unfair labor practice will taint evidence of a union's subsequent loss of majority support"). Even assum- ing, arguendo, that an employer may have committed the violations alleged in unfair labor practice charges, "[t]he wrongs of the parent should not be visited on the children, and the violations of [the em- ployer] should not be visited on these employees." Overnite Transp. Co., 333 NLRB 1392, 1398 (2001) (Member Hurtgen, dissenting); see also Cablevision Sys. Corp., No. 29-RD-138839 (June 30, 2016) (Order Denying Review) (Member Miscimarra, dissenting). The Board's "blocking charge" policy often nullifies employees' decertification elections even where the employees are not aware of the alleged employer misconduct, or where their disaffection from the union springs from wholly independent sources.

      Consider one concrete example of this phenomenon. Many former UAW officials are now in federal prison due to their corruption and embezzlement. Former International UAW President Gary Jones Sentenced to Prison for Embezzling Union Funds, U.S. Dep't of Just. (June 10, 2021), https://www.justice.gov/usao-edmi/pr/former-international-uaw-president-gary-jones-sentenced-prison- embezzling-union-funds. Suppose a unit of employees became disgusted by this corruption and wanted to get rid of the UAW as their bargaining agent, but unbeknownst to them their employer had committed some technical failure to bargain months earlier. Under the proposed blocking charge policy, these em- ployees would be prevented from voting out a criminally corrupt union because of events at the bargain- ing table in which they had no role, or about which they did not even know. Such an outcome does not protect employee free choice, and is a travesty.

      Indeed, some estimates are that 94% of workers have never voted for the union representing them, precisely because decertifying an incumbent union is so difficult and there are no automatic recer- tification requirements under the NLRA. James Sherk, Unelected Representatives: 94 percent of Union Members Never Voted for a Union, Heritage Foundation (Aug. 30, 2016), https://www.heritage.org/jobs- and-labor/report/unelected-representatives-94-percent-union-members-never-voted-union. The blocking charge policy is just one of many unfair and one-sided Board policies that saddle employees with un- wanted unions, leaving employees with little recourse to vindicate their associational rights.

2. Employees are further harmed because the Board has held they are not entitled to in- tervene, or even get information, regarding the blocking charge litigation.

      Under the proposed rule, the process of investigating and litigating a "blocking charge" creates an untenable situation in which employee rights are entirely at the mercy of the employer's legal strate- gy. A blocking charge shifts the focus of the decertification petition from the representation proceeding, in which the petitioner, the employer, and the union are all parties, to an unfair labor practice proceed- ing, in which the petitioner is not a party and often receives no notice as to the status of the proceedings. Such a system, in effect, clothes the employer as the defender of the decertification petition and assumes that the employer has the same interests as petitioner. This is not always the case. The employer has its own agenda and may choose a litigation strategy that is detrimental to the petition and employee rights,


as is its prerogative. Indeed, in most circumstances the Board looks askance at employers attempting to protect employees' representational interests. Auciello Iron Works, Inc. v. NLRB, 517 U.S. 781, 790 (1996) ("The Board is accordingly entitled to suspicion when faced with an employer's benevolence as its workers' champion against their certified union, . . . There is nothing unreasonable in giving a short leash to the employer as vindicator of its employees' organizational freedom.").

      Even if an employee wants to become a party to unfair labor practice litigation that blocks his petition, the Board has never promulgated substantive intervention standards, which results in arbitrary and inconsistent application. See 29 C.F.R. § 102.29; Veritas Health Servs., Inc. v. NLRB, 895 F.3d 69, 89 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (Millett, J., concurring) ("The Board's persistent failure to put any meat on the regu- lation's bare bones leaves individual intervention decisions at risk of arbitrary and inconsistent resolu- tion."). NLRB Administrative Law Judges routinely deny petitioners' attempts to intervene in blocking charge litigation to defend their petitions. See e.g., Veritas Health Servs., Inc., 895 F.3d 69 (court denied a petition for review filed by employee, finding the ALJ's denial of intervention caused employee no prejudice); Leggett & Platt, Inc., No. 09-CA-194057 (NLRB Order Jan. 23, 2018) (upholding ALJ's de- nial of employee's motion to intervene); Latino Express, Inc., 360 NLRB 911, 911 n.2 (2014) (uphold- ing ALJ denial of employee's motion to intervene); Wyman-Gordon Penn., LLC, 368 NLRB No. 150, slip. op at 17, ALJ n.2 (Dec. 16, 2019) (intervention was granted, but limited to permitting an employ- ees' representative to file a brief and object to any questions that breached attorney-client privilege); Scomas of Sausalito, LLC, No. 20-CA-116766, 2015 WL 764611, at n.9 (Feb. 23, 2015) (ALJ denied intervention). In General Counsel Memorandum 18-06 (Aug. 1, 2018), General Counsel Robb attempted to bolster employees' intervention rights by instructing Regional Directors not to oppose decertification petitioners' intervention in unfair labor practice litigation, but that Memorandum has since been rescind- ed by a General Counsel less interested in employee free choice rights. G.C. Memo. 21-02 (Feb. 1, 2021).

      Employees' exclusion from unfair labor practice cases related to their decertification petitions has real-world consequences. For example, in Geodis Logistics, LLC, Case Nos. 15-RD-217294 and 15- RD-231857, the union filed blocking charges, which blocked Petitioner Alexis Ray's petition. Ray was not a party to the unfair labor practice "blocking charge" cases. The Board stated that Ray would receive notice when the unfair labor practice cases were resolved. Geodis Logistics, Case No. 15-RD-217294 (Order Apr. 13, 2020). But Ray was not informed of either the parties' settlement resolving the blocking charges or the employer's compliance, at least in part because the Region did not close the unfair labor practice cases on compliance. In the intervening years while her petition was blocked, she e-mailed the Region asking for an update, but received nothing. See Geodis Logistics, Case No. 15-RD-217294, Br. of Petitioner (Jul 29, 2021) & Petitioner Req. for Admin. Notice (Jul. 30, 2021). The employer filed a request to reinstate Ms. Ray's petitions, Ray filed a brief urging the Board to grant reinstatement, noting that she remained an active participant in the representation proceedings and had been effectively denied an opportunity to seek reinstatement because she was not informed of the resolution of the unfair labor practice charges. Id. However, the Board denied the Employer's request for reinstatement as improper, while recognizing that a request directly from Ray would have been proper, which of course was not technically before it. Geodis Logistics LLC, 371 NLRB No. 102 (May 24, 2022). In effect, the Board shut her out of the process of adjudicating her own decertification petition. In a concurrence, Member Ring correctly observed:

Four years have passed since employee Mary Alexis Ray filed two petitions to decertify the Union with her coworkers' support, yet the petitions remain stuck in an interminable limbo. The Region blocked the processing of the petitions in 2018 based on a charge of


unlawful assistance but still has taken no discernable step beyond issuing a complaint covering the charge and has even postponed the unfair labor practice hearing for that complaint indefinitely. So much time has passed that Ms. Ray is no longer employed in the unit. Ms. Ray, and the other employees who supported the petitions, committed no misconduct and did nothing other than attempt to exercise their right to choose their rep- resentative. It is hard to look at the facts of this case and come to any other conclusion than that they have been denied that right.

Id., slip. op. at 4 (Ring, Member, concurring).

      If the Board adopts this proposed rule in any form, it should specifically address employees' ability to intervene in the blocking charge cases that threaten to derail their requested election. As Mem- ber Ring recognized: "If the Board is to place on decertification petitioners the burden of managing their petition . . . then the Board is obligated to adopt procedures that effectuate their statutory right to an election rather than stifle it." Id., slip op. at 7 (Ring, Member, concurring); see Veritas Health Services, 895 F.3d at 89 (Millett, J., concurring). The Board should not reinstate its blocking charge policies. However, if the Board decides to reinstate them, it should include a provision allowing decertification petitioners to intervene as full parties in blocking charge litigation to protect and effectuate their statuto- ry right to an election.

3. Imposition of the blocking charge policy puts yet another hurdle in front of employees who file decertification petitions.

     In its proposed rule, the Board ignores the virtual "gauntlet" employees have to go through to file a "timely" petition. The Board questions the premise that the proposed rule "can prevent employees from ever obtaining an election if they continue to desire an election after the merits of the charge are determined." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66904 n.103. The Board summarily notes that, should a petition be dis- missed subject to reinstatement, the petitioner can seek reinstatement. However, as described above, that can prove extremely difficult. The Board casually notes that, should the petition be dismissed or withdrawn on the basis of an unfair labor practice, the petitioner or another employee in the unit can file a new petition. Id. That ignores reality. Under the Board's rules, Petitioners are not "free" to file a petition after the unfair labor practice is remedied. Rather, they are stymied at every turn by the Board's byzantine rules and requirements.

       To collect a petition to free himself from unwanted compelled representation, an employee must publicly voice his concerns with his colleagues and solicit their support. This process is not easy and can make the employee a target of unwanted attention, threats, or worse. Moreover, an employee must col- lect a sufficient number of signatures for his showing of interest. This can be a significant undertaking, as bargaining units can be large, signatures must only be collected on personal time, and employees may not know the scope of the unit or how to contact all unit employees.

      Signature collection is merely the first hurdle in the decertification process. Once the signatures are collected, a petitioner must contend with significant and very complicated timeliness restrictions. Under the certification bar, an employee cannot file a decertification petition for the first year after the union was certified. Under the successor bar and proposed voluntary recognition bar, an employee can- not file for decertification for at least six months, and probably for up to one year from the first bargain- ing session, after a change in the employer or upon voluntary recognition. See UGL-UNICCO Serv. Co., 357 NLRB 801 (2011); Lamons Gasket Co., 357 NLRB 739 (2011). And finally, under the contract bar,


employees are prevented from filing for decertification during the term of a contract, for up to three years. Gen. Cable Corp., 139 NLRB 1123 (1962); Mountaire Farms, Inc., 370 NLRB No. 110 (Apr. 21, 2021). If the employer and union agree to successive contracts, employees have a short 30-day "open period" that falls 60-90 days (or 90-120 days in the health care industry) before the end of a three-year contract to file for decertification. These window periods and contractual hiatus end dates are difficult to calculate and are traps for unwary employees. See, e.g., Union Carbide Corp., 190 NLRB 191 (1971) (discussing bar policy and timeliness for contract longer than three years). If an employee misses these windows, the entire unit must wait up to three additional years to file another petition.

      Once the petition is filed, the petitioner becomes a party to the decertification proceeding. Under the Board's current rules, a petitioner has the burden of filing a timely Responsive Statement of Position with the Board and serving it on all parties, responding to the sometimes highly technical issues raised in employer's and union's Statements of Position. This requirement assumes familiarity with the law and with the Board's processes and e-filing system. If the petitioner fills out the form incorrectly, or worse, misses the filing and service deadline, the petitioner can be precluded from defending his petition. And most decertification petitioners are workers proceeding pro se, not seasoned labor lawyers.

      If the Board implements its former blocking charge policy, even after an employee makes it through collecting a petition, filing at the right time within a short and possibly shifting window, and properly submitting a Responsive Statement of Position, he would still have to contend with a union fil- ing non-meritorious blocking charges. As discussed above, the filing of such charges unfairly circum- vents the representation procedures and omits the petitioner from critical proceedings. The Board should not add blocking charges to the litany of ways unions can delay or avoid a representation election.

      These bars and blocking charges often make the sometimes herculean efforts of petitioners to collect a showing of interest for naught. Employees deserve better. If an employee has the courage to publicly voice his opposition to his exclusive representative to his coworkers and collect a valid petition, the Board should timely process it and hold an election.

II. The Board Should Not Rescind the Voluntary Recognition Provision in Election Protection Rule Section 103.21

A. Board should retain the Election Protection Rule's limited check on the Board-created and undemocratic "voluntary recognition bar."

      The Board's proposed "voluntary recognition bar" rescinds the current Election Protection Rule's limited check on voluntary recognitions, by prohibiting a secret ballot election for at least six months, and up to one year, after that recognition occurs.

      The voluntary recognition bar has no basis in the Act's text. It is a purely Board-created device that goes well beyond any limits on elections Congress contemplated. When Congress enacted the NLRA, it created only one bar to elections-the "election bar," which prohibits elections for one year after a valid election has been conducted. See 29 U.S.C. §§ 159(c)(3) & 159(e)(2). That is the sole limit Congress placed on employees' right to petition for elections and "bargain collectively through repre- sentatives of their own choosing," or to refrain from doing so, 29 U.S.C § 157. That Congress did not bar employee free choice beyond the one-year "election bar" means the voluntary recognition bar devi- ates from the statute Congress enacted.


      Contrary to what Congress intended, the voluntary recognition bar blocks employees from exer- cising their statutory right to a decertification election by secret ballot (or otherwise changing representa- tives) once an employer unilaterally bestows voluntary recognition on a particular union. See Keller Plastics E., Inc., 157 NLRB 583, 587 (1966); Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB 739 (reinstating recognition bar); MGM Grand Hotel, Inc., 329 NLRB 464 (1999) (voluntary recognition bar can last for over eleven months). Because the recognition bar is measured from the date of the first bargaining session (and not recognition), it can last even longer than the statutory, one-year certification bar after a Board conducted election. See 29 U.S.C. §159; Americold Logistics, LLC, 362 NLRB 493 (2015) (voluntary recognition bar may last more than one year even if union and employer delay bargaining).

      Recognizing the tension between the Board's primary function of conducting secret ballot repre- sentation elections and the voluntary recognition bar, the Board adopted a modified bar in Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 434 (2007). Under Dana, a recognition bar continued for a reasonable period only if: (1) the employer and union notified the Regional office that recognition had been granted; (2) the employer posted a notice of recognition (provided by the Regional office) informing employees that recognition has been granted and they had a right, during a 45-day "window period," to file a decertification or rival- union petition; and, (3) 45 days passed without a properly supported decertification petition being filed. Id. at 441-43. If a petition was filed during the 45-day window period, the Board would process it and hold a secret ballot election.

      In Lamons Gasket a divided Board overruled Dana, rejected the Dana notice and window period approach, and re-established a full recognition bar immediately upon recognition. 357 NLRB 739. Under Lamons Gasket the recognition bar blocks employees from filing a petition from the date of recognition until at least six months, but up to a year after the first bargaining session. Id. at 748. The Election Pro- tection Rule overturned Lamons Gasket through rulemaking and returned to the Dana notice and win- dow period procedure. The proposed rule seeks to rescind the Election Protection Rule and return to the Lamons Gasket regime.

B. The proposed rule does not promote employee free choice.

      The proposed rule states the Board "is concerned that §103.21 imposes requirements that burden collective bargaining without producing commensurate benefits in vindicating employee free choice." 87 Fed. Reg. 66909. However, the Act supports collective bargaining only when an un-coerced majority of employees support union representation. 29 U.S.C. §§ 157, 158(b)(1), 159(a). As the Board recog- nized in MV Transportation when it overturned the so-called "successor bar":

It is well established that two of the fundamental purposes of the Act are (1) the protec- tion and promotion of employee freedom of choice with respect to the initial decision to engage in or refrain from collective bargaining, and choice regarding the selection of a bargaining representative; and (2) the preservation of the stability of bargaining relation- ships. The first of these is explicitly set forth in Section 7 of the Act. The second is a mat- ter of policy and operates with respect to those situations where employees have chosen a bargaining relationship.

337 NLRB 770, 772 (2002) (citations omitted) (emphasis added); see also Levitz Furniture, 333 NLRB at 731 (Member Hurtgen, concurring) (recognizing that "[t]he preamble and the substantive provisions of the Act . . . pronounce a policy under which our nation protects and encourages the practice and pro- cedure of collective bargaining for those employees who have freely chosen to engage in it"). Stated


conversely, there is no interest in encouraging collective bargaining absent majority employee support for it. See Ladies' Garment Workers, 366 U.S. at 737-38.

      Barring election petitions after dubious voluntary recognitions does not facilitate lawful collec- tive bargaining, but only shields what may well be a minority union from employee challenge. This de- stroys employees' Section 7 and 9 rights. In contrast, the Board facilitates industrial peace and lawful collective bargaining when it conducts elections that ensure actual majority support. Linden Lumber Div.
v. NLRB, 419 U.S. 301, 307 (1974).

C. The Board's premise that voluntary recognition vindicates employee preferences is flawed.

      The proposed rule argues: "Experience under §103.21 . . . seems to show that voluntary recogni- tion almost always reflects free choice accurately." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66909. However, the Board has no basis to support that conclusion. The Board cannot know if, in a voluntary recognition, the employer- recognized union has the un-coerced support of a majority of employees.10 Voluntary recognition is a private and concealed agreement between an employer and union, which the Board has held employees cannot access. Nat'l Nurses Org. Comm.-Tex. (Bay Area Healthcare Grp., Ltd.), 371 NLRB No. 132 (Aug. 30, 2022). Nor is the Board a party to recognition agreements, so it does not and cannot supervise them. The Board does not approve or verify them, either before or after employers and unions agree on recognition. In short, "that an employer bargains with a union does not tell [the Board] whether the em- ployees wish to be represented by the union." Seattle Mariners, 335 NLRB 563, 567 n.2 (2001) (Mem- ber Hurtgen, dissenting); see also Majestic Weaving Co., 147 NLRB 859 (1964) (pre-recognition agree- ment unlawful); Montague v. N.L.R.B., 698 F.3d 307 (6th Cir. 2012) (pre-recognition agreement not un- lawful).11

      Even where a union has produced authorization cards from a majority of employees, the Board still has no knowledge of the conditions under which those cards were procured. The Board does not know whether the cards were obtained by the union through coercive means, or obtained by the employ- er, or whether employees had revoked or tried to revoke those cards. Yet, the Board intentionally blinds itself to these risks by not even considering those issues when a party raises them at a representation hearing.12 The Board does not know or care, when it applies a recognition bar, whether a true and un- coerced majority of employees actually want the representation of an employer-recognized union.



10 Many "card check drives" are fraught with union coercion, intimidation and misrepresentations that do not necessarily amount to unfair labor practices. See HCF Inc., 321 NLRB 1320, 1321 n.5 (1996) (union not responsible for threats to employee by authorization card solicitor that "the union would come and get her children and it would also slash her car tires"); Levi Strauss & Co., 172 NLRB 732, 733 (1968) (employer was ordered to recognize the union even though the Board had evidence of union misrepresentations to employees as to the purpose and effect of signing authorization cards).
11 Employers and unions usually include verbiage in recognition agreements stating that the union ob- tained authorization cards from a majority of employees. That assertion is frequently unsubstantiated. See, e.g., Nova Plumbing, Inc. v. NLRB, 330 F.3d 531 (D.C. Cir. 2003); Colo. Fire Sprinkler, 891 F.3d 1031.
12 See Lawrence Typographical Union v. McCulloch, 349 F.2d 704, 707 (D.C. Cir. 1965); Union Mfg.
Co., 123 NLRB 1633, 1633-34 (1959); Worden-Allen Co., 99 NLRB 410, 410 n. 1 (1952); NLRB
Casehandling Manual, ¶¶ 11228, 11184.


       This is true despite the fact that authorization cards are an inherently unreliable indicator of em- ployee sentiment. See NLRB v. K & K Gourmet Meats, Inc., 640 F.2d 460, 469 n.4 (3d Cir. 1981). As the Third Circuit summarized, there are a plethora of issues which can arise during a card check:

Even when the language is clear and unambiguous, the union solicitor may inform the signer that the card will be used only to obtain an election or merely to show interest in an election and that the language above the signature should be disregarded. NLRB v. Boyer Bros., Inc., 448 F.2d 555 (3d Cir. 1971). It may be accompanied by representations that it is not a final designation until there is an election. See Amalgamated Clothing Workers v. NLRB, 365 F.2d 898, 906-08 (D.C.Cir.1966). There may also be misrepresen- tations, e.g., that a majority of the employees have signed authorization cards when in fact they have not. See NLRB v. Savair Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 270, 277 (1973). The solicita- tions may also be attended by coercion or threats of reprisals and the employee's signa- ture may not be the free and informed decision made in the privacy of a voting booth. See Texaco, Inc. v. NLRB, 436 F.2d 520, 524 (7th Cir. 1971). The Court in Gissel recog- nized that cards are "admittedly inferior to the election process". . . .

Id. (parallel citations omitted).13

      Recent cases further demonstrate the inherent unreliability of card checks. For example, the UAW's proclaimed authorization card majority proved illusory in Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., Case No. 10-RM-121704. On September 11, 2013, the UAW Regional Director publicly announced that a "majority" of workers at Volkswagen's Chattanooga plant had signed authorization cards designating the UAW as their exclusive bargaining representative. UAW: Majority of Workers at Chattanooga VW Plant Have Signed Union Cards, Local 3 News, http://www.wrcbtv.com/story/23405004/uaw-majority- at-vw-plant-have-signedunion-cards (last updated Dec. 2, 2021). Volkswagen and UAW signed a "neu- trality" agreement to govern the unionization process, which required Volkswagen to file the petition for an RM election.14 Notwithstanding Volkswagen's assistance to the UAW through the "neutrality" agreement, in an NLRB-supervised secret-ballot election the employees rejected the UAW's representa- tion by a vote of 712 to 626, with almost 90% voting. Similarly, just last week CWA withdrew an elec- tion petition even though it had publicly proclaimed to possess a "supermajority" of employee signa- tures, presumably because it did not believe it had sufficient support to win the secret ballot election. Stephen Totilo, Game Developers at Blizzard Studio Proletariat Pause Union Effort, Axios, https://www.axios.com/2023/01/25/activision-blizzard-proletariat-cwa-vote (Jan. 25, 2023); see Prole- tariat, Inc., Case No. 01-RC-309453.

      The Board bases its claim that voluntary recognition effectuates employee free choice on the fact that most voluntary recognitions under the Election Protection Rule and in the prior Dana regime go un- challenged. 87 Fed. Reg. at 66912. This claim ignores that under Dana, when an employee-requested election was held after card check recognition, the union lost 25% of the time. Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 751 (Member Hayes, dissenting). As opposed to a secret ballot election, card-check recogni- tion with a 25% failure rate is not a reliable indicator of majority employee support. Nor can the Board properly rely on the number of elections requested under Dana or the Election Protection Rule. The

13 Verification by a third-party such as an arbitrator that a majority of employees signed union authoriza- tion cards does not change this reality. Those arbitrators also have no knowledge of how the union au- thorization cards were obtained from employees.
14 Relevant case documents are available at https://www.nlrb.gov/case/10-RM-121704.


Board does not know why other elections were not requested. As Member Hayes correctly pointed out, "we do not know anything about the reliability of the proof of the majority support that underlay volun- tary recognition in each of these cases, nor do we know the reasons why no petition was filed." Id. As employee representatives, Foundation attorneys see many cases in which employees are too busy, too frightened, or too intimidated by the union or the NLRB's byzantine process to initiate a challenge to a company-anointed union.

      Once recognized, unions and employers have taken advantage of the Lamons Gasket voluntary recognition bar to enter into a collective bargaining agreement that then prevents employees from ob- taining a secret-ballot election, all for as long as four years. Consistent with the Act, the Board cannot "place in permissibly careless employer and union hands the power to completely frustrate employee realization of the premise of the Act-that its prohibitions will go far to assure freedom of choice and majority rule in employee selection of representatives." Ladies' Garment Workers, 366 U.S. at 738-39. Yet, that is what the Board's proposed rule would do, and did in the past: place in self-interested em- ployer and union hands the power to suppress employees' right to vote on whether they want union rep- resentation. As the Board recognized in Johnson Controls, the policy of the Act is to hold a secret-ballot election whenever there is doubt about employee preferences. See 368 NLRB No. 20, at 7. The Board should retain the Election Protection Rule's notice and window period procedures to ensure employees saddled with a dubious "card check recognition" have at least one opportunity to request an election.

D. The "reasonable period" in the proposed rule is difficult for employees to traverse.

      The proposed rule's "reasonable period" for bargaining bars an election for at least six months, but as long as one year, after the parties' first bargaining session-depending on the Region's resolution of a fact intensive, five-part test. See Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 748; Lee Lumber & Bldg. Material Corp., 334 NLRB 399 (2001). This complicated test is impossible for employees to navigate for several reasons, and the Board should reconsider such an amorphous test. 87 Fed. Reg. at 66910.

      First, the "reasonable-time-to-bargain" test provides employees with little guidance on when an election petition may be filed and processed. Employees are generally not privy to the details of collec- tive bargaining because employers and union officials usually make their sessions confidential. Even if an employee were privy to this information, he or she could only guess whether a Region will find the reasonable-time-to-bargain test satisfied.

      Second, an employee faced with the unpredictable test has little choice but to successively file multiple election petitions, one after another, in the hope that eventually one might be processed. See, e.g., Student Transp. of Am., Inc., No. 06-RD-127208 (June 5, 2014) (employees faced with similar test used under the Board's "successor bar" doctrine filed four successive decertification petitions over a year-long period until the Region finally granted an election-which the union lost by an overwhelming vote of 88-13). Or, the employee might find the Board's unfathomable five-part test so daunting that he will simply give up. None of this enhances employee free choice.

      Third, even after an employee files the decertification petition, he must then participate in a fact- intensive hearing to determine whether or not he timely filed his petition. As noted above, employees are not necessarily privy to when bargaining sessions occur. Thus, an employee is at a disadvantage at the hearing, and if his employer decides not to put on evidence regarding the bargaining sessions, he may be required to affirmatively collect evidence and issue subpoenas for the hearing. Such a requirement is far


beyond what the Board should expect of a pro se employee (with the support of at least 30% of his col- leagues) simply to exercise his statutory right to have an election.

      Finally, the Board's proposed rule is rife with concern for union and employer waste of time and resources, but fails to address employees' time and burdens. Under the voluntary recognition bar, as proposed, employees who have no team of lawyers are stuck wasting their time and resources collecting, filing, and defending perhaps successive petitions. If the Board errs on the side of "wasting" the re- sources of one party or the other, it should err on the side of protecting employees' resources.

      In short, the Board's proposed return to the voluntary recognition bar in Lamons Gasket is diffi- cult to administer and nearly impossible for employees to traverse. The Board should not implement this change and should instead maintain the current Election Protection Rule, to give employees at least one discrete window where they can secure a true secret ballot election to choose their representative.

E. The Board's proposed rule's rationale is inconsistent with its long-standing preference for Board-conducted secret-ballot elections.

      The Board's proposed rule is inconsistent with long-standing law holding that secret-ballot elec- tions, not voluntary recognitions, are the gold standard under the Act. The proposed rule states:

To proceed to an election, employees opposed to the union need not allege, much less es- tablish, that the union lacked lawful majority support at the time it was voluntarily recog- nized. Nor are the employees required to present evidence demonstrating that a majority of bargaining-unit employees no longer support the recently recognized union. Rather, a showing that a minority of unit employees (as few as 30 percent) desire an election is enough. An election, in turn, is decided by a majority of voting employees, who may comprise a minority of unit employees    the Board's preliminary view is that §103.21
actually undermines employee free choice . . . .

87 Fed. Reg. at 66910. Putting aside the Board's implicit contention that pro se employees should be able to immediately attack a voluntary recognition with a majority disaffection petition, the proposed rule privileges voluntary recognition over Board conducted elections. The Board has always recognized that the best arbiter of employee sentiment is a Board-conducted, secret-ballot election, which is con- ducted after the requisite showing of interest is procured. The Board now suggests that, because a suffi- cient showing of interest for an election is 30% and there is no guarantee all employees will vote in an election, that an election is less indicative of employee interests than is a voluntary recognition. This is an extreme departure from Supreme Court and Board precedent, without any rational basis.

       The Supreme Court has long recognized that Board supervised secret-ballot elections are the preferred method for gauging whether employees desire union representation. See Linden Lumber Div., 419 U.S. at 304, 307; NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 602 (1969) ("secret elections are gen- erally the most satisfactory-indeed the preferred-method of ascertaining whether a union has majority support"); Brooks v. NLRB, 348 U.S. 96, 99 (1954) ("an election is a solemn and costly occasion, con- ducted under safeguards to voluntary choice"). The Board and the lower courts similarly "emphasize that Board-conducted elections are the preferred way to resolve questions regarding employees' support for unions." Levitz Furniture, 333 NLRB at 723, citing Gissel, 395 U.S. at 602; Underground Serv. Alert, 315 NLRB 958, 960 (1994); NLRB v. Cornerstone Blders., Inc., 963 F.2d 1075, 1078 (8th Cir.
1992).


      In secret-ballot elections, the Board recognizes it provides a "laboratory" in which an experiment may be conducted, under conditions as nearly ideal as possible, to determine the uninhibited desires of the employees. See General Shoe Corp., 77 NLRB 124, 127 (1948); see also NLRB v. Sanitary Laundry, Inc., 441 F.2d 1368, 1369 (10th Cir. 1971); Gissel, 395 U.S. at 601-02. In contrast, the fundamental purpose and effect of a "voluntary recognition agreement" is to eliminate Board-supervised "laboratory conditions" protecting employee free choice, and to substitute a system in which unions and employers have far greater leeway to pressure employees to accept union representation.

      The Board has held that non-electoral evidence of employee support-even if untainted by any unfair labor practices-is not as reliable as an election in gauging employee support for a union. For ex- ample, in Underground Service Alert, 315 NLRB 958 (1994), the Board confronted a situation where a majority of employees voted for union representation in a decertification election, but before the election results were known, the employees presented a majority petition to the employer indicating they did not want union representation. The Board considered the employee petition a "less-preferred indicator of employee sentiment," particularly as compared to "the more formal and considered majority employee preference for union representation which was demonstrated by the preferred method-the Board- conducted secret-ballot election." Id. at 961.15

      The superiority of Board supervised secret-ballot elections for protecting employee free choice is beyond dispute. It is, therefore, incongruous for the Board to suggest that its procedure for seeking a se- cret ballot election is somehow less indicative of employee free choice.

F. The Board's proposed rule will violate the Act by privileging the right to unionize over the right to refrain from unionization.

1. Under the proposed rule, it is much easier to voluntarily recognize a union than with- draw recognition.

      The Act guarantees employees' ability to choose a representative, which necessarily means, to choose whether or not to be represented by a union. The Act guards with equal jealousy employees' right to choose to be represented by a union, and the right to not be represented by a union. Baltimore Sun Co. v. NLRB, 257 F.3d 419, 426 (4th Cir. 2001). Employees can decide their representational de- sires with or without a vote. Without a vote, employees can collect signed cards or signatures on a peti- tion from a majority of the unit and submit that to their employer expressing their representational de- sires. When the employees' desire is to be represented by a union, that is called "voluntary recognition," and when the employees' desire is to no longer be represented by a union, that is called a "withdrawal of recognition."

      With respect to a voluntary recognition, unions can collect a petition at any time, freely enter into neutrally agreements with friendly employers, and, once the employer voluntarily recognizes the union under the proposed rule, the union is installed as exclusive bargaining representative without the ability

15 Even unions recognize that NLRB-supervised secret-ballot elections are superior to "card checks" in establishing the true choice of the uncoerced majority. For example, the AFL-CIO argued to the Board that employee petitions and cards advocating decertification "are not sufficiently reliable indicia of the employees' desires," and that employees and employers should only be able to remove a union pursuant to a secret-ballot election. See Brief of the AFL-CIO to the NLRB in Chelsea Industries & Levitz Furni- ture Co., No. 7-CA-36846, at 13 (May 18, 1998).


of employees to seek a vote for at least six months, but up to one year from the first bargaining session. Additionally, voluntary recognition is a back-room undertaking, leaving employees in the dark about how the majority petition was collected and how the employer accepted that petition. National Nurses Organizing Committee-Texas (Bay Area Healthcare Group, Ltd.), 371 NLRB No. 132 (Aug. 22, 2022). In short, the Board has given employers and unions every incentive to engage in voluntary recognitions, and cut the Board out of the election process.

      In contrast, if an employer receives a majority disaffection petition, the Board has many re- strictions on the employer's ability to effectuate employee wishes. First, employees must discern the rules for collecting and giving the petition to their employer. If the employees ask the employer about the process, and the employer answers those questions, the union will likely claim the petition tainted by employer support. Second, employees have to carefully collect the petition outside of work time and in non-work areas, and must collect the petition after the certification year. If the petition is collected dur- ing the certification year, even if it is given to the employer after the year expires, the employer cannot withdraw recognition. Chelsea Industries, 331 NLRB 1648 (2000). Third, the employer has the burden of demonstrating objective evidence of employee disaffection. If it cannot, it commits an unfair labor practice. Fourth, once an employer withdraws recognition, it will likely be subject to unfair labor prac- tice charges alleging issues with the withdrawal of recognition. Finally, under Johnson Controls, Inc., 368 NLRB No. 20 (July 3, 2019), under an anticipatory withdrawal of recognition, the union has a des- ignated window period of time to challenge the withdrawal and demand an election (similar to the win- dow period for voluntary recognitions in the Election Protection Rule).

      Thus in practice, it is much harder for employees to get an employer to withdraw recognition than it is for a union to achieve voluntary recognition. The Election Protection Rule, while not perfect, better balances these inequities by allowing employees a way to challenge voluntary recognition, just as mechanisms exist for unions to challenge a withdrawal of recognition under Johnson Controls Inc. The Board is correct to note that the current rule requires employers and unions to post a notice-but such a requirement is significantly outweighed by the benefit provided to unions via the voluntary recognition bar. Unlike unions, individual employees do not have institutions protecting their interests. The Board should impose a de minimis notice posting requirement on the institutions seeking to impose their will over employees.

2. Prohibiting an employer from withdrawing recognition would create a further imbal- ance between union interests and employee statutory rights.

      The Board invited public comment on whether it should adopt "a parallel rule to apply in the un- fair labor practice context, prohibiting an employer-which would otherwise be privileged to withdraw recognition based on the union's loss of majority support-from withdrawing recognition . . . before a reasonable period for collective bargaining has elapsed." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66909. The Board should not adopt such a rule. As discussed above, the Board has already elevated voluntary recognition over with- drawals of recognition. Creating a new unfair labor practice for withdrawals of recognition would make this inequity even worse. Employees should have the same right to petition for removal of an unwanted union as they have to petition for a union in the first instance. If a union can perform a card check and demand recognition, employees should also be able to do a card check and demand withdrawal of recognition.


III. The Proposed Rule's Rescission of Election Protection Rule Section 103.23 and Return to
Staunton Fuel and Casale Is Inconsistent with the Act and Unlawful under Court Precedent.

A. Section 9(a) requires a union to demonstrate majority support.

      "[U]nder Section 9(a) the rule is that employees pick the union; the union does not pick the em- ployees." Colo. Fire Sprinkler, 891 F.3d at 1038. Yet, the proposed rule would effectively allow unions to "pick the employees" in the construction industry. The Board proposes to rescind 29 C.F.R. § 103.23 and return to its holdings in Staunton Fuel & Material, Inc., 335 NLRB 717, 717 (2001), and Casale Industries, Inc., 311 NLRB 951, 953 (1993), which held that a written agreement between a union and employer can by itself establish a Section 9(a) relationship, and limit the time for challenging such a recognition. These holdings are contrary to the Act and D.C. Circuit precedent.

      In enacting Sections 7 and 9(a), Congress recognized the paramount importance of employee free choice in collective bargaining. Section 7 "guards with equal jealousy employees' selection of the union of their choice and their decision not to be represented at all." Baltimore Sun Co., 257 F.3d at 426. Similarly, Section 9(a) provides that "[r]epresentatives designated or selected for the purposes of collec- tive bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes, shall be the ex- clusive representatives of all the employees in such unit." 29 U.S.C. 159(a) (emphasis added). Section 9(a) thus reserves to employees the sole right to designate or select a monopoly bargaining representa- tive.

      There is simply no congressional policy favoring "exclusive representation" under Section 9(a) absent proof of majority employee support for a union. The Supreme Court made this clear in Ladies' Garment Workers, holding that "[t]here could be no clearer abridgment of § 7 of the Act," than "grant[ing] exclusive bargaining status to an agency selected by a minority of its employees, thereby im- pressing that agent upon the nonconsenting majority." 366 U.S. at 737 (citation omitted). Although NLRA Section 8(f) allows some initial flexibility in the construction industry, the Board's proposed rule would allow that exception to swallow the rule by allowing Section 9(a) representation status to be based on mere "agreement" of the union and employer, with no showing of majority employee sentiment.

      Further compounding that harm, the proposed rule makes clear that a theoretical interest in "in- dustrial stability" trumps all other considerations. See 87 Fed. Reg. 66913. According to the proposed rule, a union's purported interest in the three-year contract bar is sufficient to override employees' inter- est in ridding themselves of a minority union that has never been subjected to a vote. Id. at 66913-14. The Board's myopic focus on union stability and union perks is directly inconsistent with the Act, and ripe for abuse by institutional actors. See Nova Plumbing, 330 F.3d at 537 ("colluding" employers and unions can misuse the contract bar "at the expense of employees and rival unions"). A union armed with Section 9(a) status will perpetually remain the employees' exclusive representative unless and until em- ployees remove it, through asking their employer to withdraw recognition or filing a decertification peti- tion, which as described, supra Section I.C.3, can be extremely difficult.


B. Self-interested employers and unions cannot be trusted to unilaterally decide when there is majority support for a union.

      The Board's proposed rule returning to the decision in Staunton Fuel defies the Act's plain lan- guage, by concluding that unions and employers can agree between themselves that a majority of em- ployees want union representation, despite possessing no actual proof to support the assertion.

      The proposed rule turns the Act's structure on its head. The statute protects the rights of "em- ployees," 29 U.S.C. § 157, from unfair labor practices committed by employers and labor organizations. 29 U.S.C. §158(a), (b). To cavalierly defer to unproven employer and labor organization assertions con- cerning employees' exercise of their rights is akin to a farmer putting two foxes in charge of guarding his henhouse. There is good reason to suspect that these particular foxes will not safeguard employee rights. Employers and unions have self-interests that do not include employee interests. Neither has an overriding interest in protecting employee free choice for its own sake, and either will take actions to the detriment of employee rights in order to protect its own interests.

      The Supreme Court recognized as much in Ladies' Garment Workers, holding that deferring to even a "good-faith" employer determination that a union has majority employee support "would place in permissibly careless employer and union hands the power to completely frustrate employee realization of the premise of the Act." 366 U.S. at 738-39; see also Auciello Iron Works, 517 U.S. at 790 (holding that the Board is "entitled to suspicion when faced with an employer's benevolence as its workers' champion"). The D.C. Circuit reached a similar conclusion in Nova Plumbing, where it reversed a Board decision that blindly deferred to a union and employer's statement that the union had majority employee support, because the Board decision "creates an opportunity for construction companies and unions to circumvent both section 8(f) protections and Garment Workers' holding by colluding at the expense of employees and rival unions." 330 F.3d at 537.

      These conclusions have been borne out in practice. There is a long history of employers making backroom deals with favored unions that disregard employee free choice. See, e.g., Duane Reade, Inc., 338 NLRB 943 (2003), enforced, 99 Fed. App'x 240 (D.C. Cir. 2004) (union and employer conspire to achieve "voluntary recognition" of a minority union favored by the employer); Fountainview Care Ctr., 317 NLRB 1286 (1995), enforced, 88 F.3d 1278 (D.C. Cir. 1996) (supervisors and other agents of the employer actively encouraged employees to support the union); NLRB v. Windsor Castle Healthcare Facilities, Inc., 13 F.3d 619 (2d Cir. 1994), enforcing 310 NLRB 579 (1993) (employer provided sham employment to union organizers and assisted their recruitment efforts); Kosher Plaza Supermarket, 313 NLRB 74, 80-82 (1993) (employer threatens discharge of employees who refuse to sign cards for fa- vored union); Brooklyn Hosp. Ctr., 309 NLRB 1163 (1992), aff'd sub nom. Local 144, Hotel, Hosp., Nursing Home & Allied Servs. Union v. NLRB, 9 F.3d 218 (2d Cir. 1993) (employer permitted local un- ion, which it had already recognized as an exclusive bargaining representative, to meet on its premises for the purpose of soliciting union membership); Famous Castings Corp., 301 NLRB 404, 407 (1991) (employer unlawfully supported union and coerced employees into signing authorization cards); Ana- heim Town & Country Inn, 282 NLRB 224 (1986) (employer actively participated in the union organiza- tional drive from start to finish); Meyer's Cafe & Konditorei, 282 NLRB 1 (1986) (employer invited un- ion it favored to attend hiring meeting with employees at rival union's expense). The Board should act to prevent such collusion, not encourage it.


C. The time limitations on challenging Section 9(a) recognition in Casale are inconsistent with the Act.

1. Section 103.23 does not put additional burdens on construction industry unions.

      The Board indicates that its proposed rule would ensure "unions representing employees in the construction industry are not treated less favorably than nonconstruction unions." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66914.

Casale erroneously states:

[U]nions in the construction industry should not be treated less favorably than those in nonconstruction industries. As shown above, parties in noncontruction industries, who have established and maintained a stable Section 9 relationship, are entitled to protection against a tardy attempt to disrupt their relationship. Parties in the construction industry are entitled to no less protection. Accordingly, if a construction industry employer ex- tends 9(a) recognition to a union, and 6 months elapse without a charge or petition, the Board should not entertain a claim that majority status was lacking at the time of recogni- tion.

311 NLRB at 953. This statement is erroneous for two reasons. First, construction industry unions are allowed special privileges, including the ability to represent employees without their consent. With that special privilege come attendant burdens to ensure employees have the ability to choose their representa- tive. Second, this statement presupposes the employer has properly extended Section 9(a) status to a construction union. Unions in other industries are granted Section 9(a) recognition via card check or se- cret ballot election. Such status requires more than a mere statement in a collective bargaining agree- ment that the union has achieved majority support. If the union never had majority support, it should not be entitled to the benefits Section 9(a) confers, and employees should be able to challenge its representa- tion status.

2. The record keeping "burden" on unions and employers is minimal and voluntary.

      The proposed rule would limit employees' ability to challenge Section 9(a) recognition to six months from such recognition. Casale Indus., 311 NLRB at 953. The Board suggests this change for at least two reasons: (1) the current rule burdens employers and unions by requiring them to indefinitely retain proof of majority support; and (2) it alleviates concerns over evidence of majority support becom- ing stale over time. 87 Fed. Reg. at 66912-13.

      With respect to the former, the Board's concern is unwarranted. The Board notes it does not as- sume companies' and labor organizations' "current records retention processes are adequate for the task imposed on them by § 103.22." 87 Fed. Reg. at 66912 n.139. This statement is ridiculous on its face. The rule does not mandate every union and employer retain records-a union and employer are only re- quired to maintain records if they want to insulate the union from an election challenge. This record keeping exercise is completely unnecessary if the union avails itself of the Board's election process and seeks certification in a representation election under Section 9. If a Section 8(f) union truly has majority support, it can seek and win a secret ballot election.

      Moreover, retaining petitions or cards from an organizing drive is a minimal burden to ensure employees' rights are protected under the Act. The current rule does not require maintaining a closet-full


of documents. It merely requires retaining a copy of the showing of majority support-in many small units, this consists of a few documents from employees. This record-keeping requirement is not "unique- ly burdensome," as the Board suggests. 87 Fed. Reg. at 66913. The Board imposes recordkeeping re- quirements in other instances. For example, the Board requires employers and unions to keep a copy of the checkoffs employees signed to authorize dues deductions. These forms can be decades-old due to their self-renewing nature. The Board requires the retention of such documents because a written as- signment is statutorily required and the deductions could infringe on an employees' right to refrain from assisting a labor organization. See, e.g., Local 58, IBEW (Paramount Indus., Inc.), 365 NLRB No. 30 (Feb. 10, 2017) (the checkoff signed by employee governs and revocation windows, not the CBA or in- ternal union policies). Federal law also requires unions to maintain audited financial records under cases such as California Saw & Knife Works, 320 NLRB 224 (1995) and United Nurses & Allied Profession- als v. NLRB, 975 F.3d 34 (1st Cir. 2020). Retaining copies of signature cards or petitions is much less involved or burdensome.

      Without requiring proof of majority support, the Board's proposed rule would infringe on em- ployees' right to be free from a minority or unwanted union. Unions and employers could easily con- spire to claim the proof of majority support was "lost," or that it would have never converted its Section 8(f) agreement into a Section 9(a) relationship without such support (even if that majority support never existed). Indeed, the Board's proposed rule returning to Staunton Fuel would allow contractual language alone to establish a bargaining relationship. On that question, the Supreme Court has been clear that even good-faith reliance cannot excuse recognizing and bargaining with a minority union. Ladies' Gar- ment Workers, 366 U.S. at 739; see also Colo. Fire Sprinkler, 891 F.3d at 1040-41. Allowing unions and employers to wave away their lack of evidence while solidifying the union's power is not a "solu- tion"-it is the problem. The burden imposed on unions and employers to prove majority support is minimal and necessary to supporting the overriding goal of the Act, employee free choice.

      Similarly, the Board's concern that evidence becomes unreliable over time is unwarranted. Evi- dence of who signed a petition or an authorization card and a list of employees in the unit at the time of recognition does not become inherently unreliable any more than does a decades-old dues deduction au- thorization card or membership form. Indeed, they are far more reliable than the alternative-a mere statement in a collective bargaining agreement that the union achieved majority support.

CONCLUSION

      The Board's proposed rule is extra-statutory, unfair, and harmful to employee free choice. It should be withdrawn in its entirety, and the Election Protection Rule should remain in force.

Respectfully submitted,


/s/ Raymond J. LaJeunesse, Jr. Raymond J. LaJeunesse, Jr.
Vice President & Legal Director


