COMMENTS ON PROPOSED RULE REGARDING REPRESENTATION-CASE PROCEDURES: ELECTION BARS; PROOF OF MAJORITY SUPPORT IN CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING RELATIONSHIPS 87 Fed. Reg. 66,890 (Nov. 4, 2022)
RIN 3142-AA22

Submitted February 2, 2023


Roxanne Rothschild, Executive Secretary National Labor Relations Board
1015 Half Street S.E. Washington, D.C. 20570

      The Service Employees International Union ("SEIU") submits these comments in response to the National Labor Relations Board's ("NLRB" or "Board") Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding blocking charges, the voluntary recognition bar, and union recognition in the construction industry. Representation-Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships, 87 Fed. Reg. 66,890 (Nov. 4, 2022) ("Proposed Rule").

      SEIU represents approximately two million working people employed in property services, healthcare, and public services. SEIU also supports not-yet-union fast food workers organizing with the Fight for
$15 and a Union. With regard to the Proposed Rule's provisions on union recognition in the construction industry, SEIU fully supports the views expressed in the comments of the AFL-CIO and North America's Building Trades Unions ("NABTU"). SEIU's comments focus only on the Proposed Rule's provisions regarding the blocking charge and voluntary recognition bar policies.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

      SEIU supports the Proposed Rule because the Board's traditional blocking charge and voluntary recognition bar policies promote worker free choice and collective bargaining as the National Labor Relations Act ("NLRA" or "Act") envisions. The Proposed Rule would restore these policies, undoing a 2020 rule that frustrates workers' rights under the Act, contravenes the Act's core purposes, and had no reasoned basis in available evidence. See Representation-Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships, 85 Fed. Reg. 18,366 (Apr. 1, 2020) ("2020 Rule").

      The 2020 Rule's elimination of blocking charges compromises the integrity of NLRB- supervised elections by exposing them to unremedied employer threats and other illegal coercion. For over eighty years before the 2020 Rule, blocking charges had temporarily delayed elections when an employer unlawfully coerced workers regarding their choice in the election. The 2020 Rule ended this practice, forcing elections to proceed even in an atmosphere tainted by egregious employer coercion. Although workers still may vote in a rerun election if allegations of coercion are subsequently proven, the lingering effects of prior, tainted elections remain. The 2020 Rule thus abdicates the Board's responsibility to determine workers' actual, uncoerced choice under "laboratory conditions." Additionally, endless rerun elections waste the already inadequate resources of the agency.

      If workers manage to achieve union representation outside the NLRB election process by showing support from a majority of their coworkers and obtaining their employer's voluntary recognition, the 2020 Rule has another stumbling block in store for them. The 2020 Rule permits a minority of the unit to frustrate the majority-chosen representative by forcing a new election process despite the just-demonstrated majority support on which the voluntary recognition was premised. In contrast, prior policy temporarily barred petitions challenging the majority-chosen union to ensure that NLRA-required collective bargaining proceeded without delay or interference. The 2020 Board's explanation for its change was that Board elections, not majority signup, are the preferred means of determining workers' true choice. 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,381. This explanation rings hollow in light of the contagions the 2020 Rule introduced into the election process by removing the blocking charge safeguard and in light of the same majority's decision in Johnson Controls, which permits union-ousting signups to nullify the results of union-won, Board-supervised elections. 368 NLRB No. 20 (2019).

      The 2020 Rule failed to produce evidence substantiating any need for such radical changes. To the contrary, the evidence that is available indicates that the changes were unnecessary. Additionally, the data cited to support the proposed rule that led to the 2020 Rule was riddled with errors, tainting the rulemaking as a whole.

      The Board should finalize the Proposed Rule, which would correctly return the state of the law to that which preceded the 2020 Rule.

I. The Board should restore its traditional blocking charge policy

A. Background

      Section 7 of the National Labor Relations Act guarantees workers the right to join unions, bargain collectively, and act concertedly for mutual aid or protection. 29 U.S.C. § 157. To make Section 7 rights meaningful in the face of mass resistance by corporate employers, Congress prohibited unfair labor practices ("ULPs") that interfere with those rights, including retaliation for union support and threats that interfere with workers' free choice in union elections. 29
U.S.C. § 158(a). Congress created the Board to adjudicate unfair labor practice allegations and, when a petition has been filed, resolve any "question of representation," i.e., a question whether a given unit of workers wishes to be represented by a union. 29 U.S.C. § 159. It is the Board's fundamental duty to protect workers' free choice by ensuring that union elections occur in "laboratory conditions" not tainted by employer coercion. General Shoe Corp., 77 NLRB 124,

127 (1948) ("In election proceedings, it is the Board's function to provide a laboratory in which an experiment may be conducted, under conditions as nearly ideal as possible, to determine the uninhibited desires of the employees.").

      For more than eighty years, the Board fulfilled this duty, in part, by developing and implementing its blocking charge policy. See United States Coal and Coke Company, 3 NLRB 398 (1937). No court ever held this policy unlawful. Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,902.
Blocking charges generally fell into two "types": 1) charges alleging interference with worker choice and 2) charges alleging interference with worker choice and conduct inherently inconsistent with an election petition itself. Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,892. Examples of the latter category include employer instigation of a decertification petition or a showing of interest produced via coercion. Id.

      Before the 2020 Rule, "Type I" charges would be addressed as follows: "when (1) a party to a representation case request[ed] that its unfair labor practice charge block processing [an election] petition, (2) the charge allege[d] conduct that, if proven, would interfere with employee free choice in an election were one to be conducted, and [was] accompanied by a sufficient offer of proof, and (3) the charging party promptly ma[de] its witnesses available, the charge [was] investigated and either dismissed, withdrawn or remedied before the petition [was] processed to an election	" Representation-Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in
Construction Industry Collective-Bargaining Relationships, 84 Fed. Reg. 39,930, 39,942 (Aug. 12, 2019) ("2019 Proposed Rule") (Member McFerran dissenting). If the pro-blocking party's "offer of proof [did] not describe evidence that, if proven, would interfere with employee free choice in an election . . . the regional director	continue[d] to process the petition and conduct
the election." Id. If a "Type II" charge was at issue, the Regional Director would dismiss the petition entirely upon finding merit to the charge. Id. In such cases, the petition could have been reinstated if the charge was later dismissed. Id. Parties could appeal Regional Directors' decisions regarding blocking charges to the Board. Id., n.57.

      The 2020 Rule essentially abandoned the blocking charge policy, forcing elections to move forward even amid egregious and illegal employer threats linked to the election itself. The 2020 Rule requires temporary impoundment of ballots following an election in a small category of cases,1 but in most cases the ballots will be opened and counted immediately despite the

1 This applies "only for cases where the unfair labor practice charge, filed by the party that is requesting to block the election process, alleges (1) violations of Section 8(a)(1) and 8(a)(2) or Section 8(b)(1)(A) of the Act that challenge the circumstances surrounding the petition or the showing of interest submitted in support of the petition; or (2) that an employer has dominated a union in violation of Section 8(a)(2) and seeks to disestablish a bargaining relationship." 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18369. "For those categories of charges, the final rule . . . provides that the ballots shall be impounded for up to 60 days from the conclusion of the election if the charge has not been withdrawn or dismissed, or if a complaint has not issued, prior to the conclusion of the election. If a complaint issues with respect to the charge at any time prior to expiration of that 60-day post-election period, then the ballots shall continue to be impounded until there is a final determination regarding the charge and its effect, if any, on the election petition. If the charge is withdrawn or dismissed at any time prior to expiration of that 60-day period, or if the 60-day period ends without a complaint issuing, then the ballots shall be promptly opened and counted. The final rule further provides that the 60-day period will not be extended, even if more than one unfair labor practice charge is filed serially." 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,369-70.

pending charge, and in all cases the election itself will proceed despite the pending charge. 29
C.F.R. § 103.20(b)-(c). While elections will never be delayed, when blocking requests are filed together with a ULP charge, "the certification of results (including, where appropriate, a certification of representative) [does] not issue until there is a final disposition of the charge and a determination of its effect, if any, on the election petition." 29 C.F.R. § 103.20(d).

B. Blocking charges serve the core purposes of the NLRA

      Blocking charges advance the Board's central mandate in representation cases: determining worker choice under "laboratory conditions." Long ago, the Board observed that "[i]t is [the Board's] duty to establish those conditions; it is also [the Board's] duty to determine whether they have been fulfilled." General Shoe, 77 NLRB at 127 (emphasis added). The Board long recognized that when employers engage in intimidating conduct relating to workers' choice in an election, the Board is "not justified in assuming that the election results represent[] the employees' own true wishes." Id.

      Establishing "laboratory conditions" in union elections is such an essential part of the Board's statutory responsibility that even when employer conduct does not violate the Act, it may nonetheless serve as grounds for setting aside an election when it tends to contaminate laboratory conditions. Id.; see also Dal-Tex Optical Co., 137 NLRB 1782, 1787 (1962) (regardless of whether NLRA violation is established, an employer's "clear threats and the implied anticipatory refusal to bargain if the Union should win the election . . . generated an atmosphere of fear of economic loss and complete hostility to the Union which destroyed the laboratory conditions in which the Board must hold its elections and prevented the employees' expression of a free choice in the election.").

      When evidence suggests that conduct not only interferes with worker choice, but also is serious enough to constitute a ULP, the Board for over 80 years had tailored its response to the threat posed: it temporarily blocked the election until "laboratory conditions" could be restored. As the Fifth Circuit summarized the policy:

The [Board] has employed its blocking charge rule since 1937 . . . to dismiss decertification petitions during the pendency of unfair labor practice proceedings or while the effects of prior unfair labor practices remain undissipated. The reasons for this rule do not long elude comprehension	It would be particularly anomalous, and
disruptive of industrial peace, to allow the employer's unfair labor practices to dissipate the union's strength, and then to require a new election which would not be likely to demonstrate the employees' true, undistorted desires, since employee disaffection with the union in such cases is in all likelihood prompted by the situation resulting from the unfair labor practices.

      Bishop v. NLRB, 502 F.2d 1024, 1028 (5th Cir. 1974) quoting NLRB v. Big Three Industries, Inc., 497 F.2d 43, 51-52 (5th Cir. 1974) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted). The court recognized that, without blocking charges, "many of the [Board]'s sanctions against employers who are guilty of misconduct would lose all meaning" because "[i]f the

employer has in fact committed unfair labor practices and has thereby succeeded in undermining union sentiment, it would surely controvert the spirit of the Act to allow the employer to profit by his own wrongdoing." Bishop, 502 F.2d at 1029.

      The 2020 Rule allows employers to do just that, forcing workers to vote in tainted elections even in the context of the most egregious employer wrongdoing. Although the results of such an election may not hold if the employer violations are proven, workers still will have been forced to vote in an election within an atmosphere of coercion. Unions will then have to convince workers who voted against the union out of fear in the illegitimate election to change their vote in any subsequent election. Also, repeatedly forcing workers to vote in elections that do not matter engenders the belief that exercising NLRA rights is futile. Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,908; 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,948 (Member McFerran dissenting).

The 2020 Rule contains no exceptions that might soften the blow of its extreme position.
For example, if, right before an election, an employer 1) fires all known union supporters as a group, 2) informs the remaining unit workers verbally and by email that its anti-union animus motivated the firings and that anyone who votes for union representation will also be fired, and
3) copies Board agents on the email, the Board will still plow ahead with the election as scheduled. A charge alleging such misconduct could result in a rerun, but could never delay the election itself while the coercion is remedied - sending the unmistakable message to workers voting under such conditions that Board procedures are a sham. And even if a new election is ordered, the employer may do the exact same thing right before the next election without causing a delay of that election. That a regulation is broad enough to allow for such absurd results should alone justify its rescission.

      Attempting to justify its changes, the 2020 Board explained, "Although some commenters assert that blocking charges are not to blame for the unacceptably lengthy delay of elections in certain cases, it is undisputed that blocking charges delay elections. In this regard, it takes time for the General Counsel to investigate a charge and, on occasion, to litigate a complaint based on the charge. We believe that it is our obligation to prevent this needless delay of employees' exercise of their right to express their free choice regarding union representation in a timely held election." 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,378. The 2020 Board was concerned that such delays could frustrate free choice by "rob[bing] an election-petition effort of momentum." 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,367. But of course, there is no worker "free choice" in an atmosphere of coercion, so this reasoning collapses unless the Board assumes, contrary to evidence, that all blocking charges lack merit. In other words, the principal reason given by the Board for the 2020 Rule is infected with a basic logical flaw; it depends on one of two false premises: either that (1) elections conducted in the context of coercion reflect employee free choice (false) or (2) all blocking charges lack merit (also false).

      The supposed benefit of "vot[ing] while the issues surrounding the petition effort for an election are fresh in [workers'] minds" also cannot justify the 2020 Rule. 2020 Rule, 85 Fed.
Reg. at 18,374. When employers illegally coerce workers, the resulting blocking charges in no way prevent workers from voting when "issues" are fresh in their minds. Under the prior practice, as soon as ULP allegations in blocking charges were remedied, dismissed, or withdrawn (i.e., as soon as "laboratory conditions" were restored), an election petition would be unblocked and parties would be free as ever to make "fresh" arguments to workers regarding any issue

before they voted. What the 2020 Rule requires is that workers vote while illegal and unremedied employer threats are "fresh in their minds." Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,908 n.110; see also 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,946 (Member McFerran dissenting).

      Finally, the Proposed Rule is correct that forcing workers to vote in an unlimited series of rerun elections is grossly inefficient and wastes precious resources. Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,903. The Board is already underfunded. While Congress did provide a much-needed increase at the end of last year, it was still insufficient to match the needs of workers seeking to exercise rights under the Act. See General Counsel Abruzzo and Chairman McFerran,
Statement on NLRB Funding in the 2023 Omnibus Bill (Dec. 29, 2022) available at https://www.nlrb.gov/news-outreach/news-story/statement-on-nlrb-funding-in-the-2023- omnibus-bill. The Board must not divert its precious resources away from securing relief and representation for workers toward conducting meaningless elections that will not actually resolve questions of representation. Endless rerun elections also tax the resources of unions, which will be forced to spend money and time convincing workers who were illegally coerced into voting against representation to change their minds in rerun elections (which may be just as ULP-tainted as a previous election). Unlike the vast majority of NLRA-covered employers, unions are non- profit, democratically-run organizations, which will be put at an unfair disadvantage if forced to confront corporate anti-union campaigns (for which money is no object) over and over again in rerun elections.

C. The Lockport case demonstrates the necessity of blocking charges

      Buffalo-area workers' recent attempt to organize with 1199SEIU United Healthcare Workers East ("1199") at the Lockport Rehab and Healthcare Center ("Lockport") illustrates the necessity of blocking charges and the damage inflicted by their unavailability. While the 2020 Board appeared fixated on unions' requesting blocking charges to delay decertification elections, see infra note 4, the Lockport case involves the union's own election petitions.2

      Workers organizing at Lockport contacted 1199 to win fairer wages and working conditions. Over 75% of the workers indicated that they supported the union. On October 2, 2020, 1199 filed petitions to represent two bargaining units at Lockport, a unit of technical employees and a unit of service and maintenance employees. Immediately upon learning of the organizing effort, Lockport launched a relentless and illegal anti-union campaign to scare workers out of exercising their right to join together in a union. In an all too familiar fact pattern, the company's campaign of intimidation resulted in the union's election loss despite the overwhelming majority support it originally enjoyed.

      Lockport's campaign included a series of escalating, egregious ULPs. First came the velvet glove: as soon as it learned of the organizing, Lockport gave employees a pay raise to entice and coerce them against supporting the union. Then came the fist: Lockport fired a technical employee and vocal union supporter in retaliation for her union activities. Lockport initially tried to lure her away from supporting the union by promoting her and then asking her to


2 Signed RC Petition, Lockport Rehab and Health Care Center, NLRB Case 03-RC-267061 (Oct. 2, 2020); Signed RC Petition, Lockport Rehab and Health Care Center, NLRB Case 03-RC-267049 (Oct. 2, 2020).

report on the activities of other workers organizing with the union. When she refused to sell out her coworkers, Lockport fired her and ordered security staff to publicly escort her out of the facility in plain view of many coworkers. This sent a chilling message of fear throughout the workplace, and the union began to bleed support. Also, in the same month during which the election petitions were filed, Lockport, for the first time, installed surveillance cameras with video and sound capabilities in the break room and in several other important worker gathering areas in the facility. Escalating again, Lockport then strategically fired another vocal union supporter, this time in the service and maintenance unit.

      On November 5, 2020, the day before the election, Lockport escorted an outside contractor, Healthcare Services Group, around the facility. Lockport officials and the contractor asked workers about details of their jobs and indicated that their work was going to be subcontracted out. When workers asked who the new faces were, their supervisors said the contractor would be their new boss if the union won the election the next day. This message quickly spread throughout the bargaining units, instilling fear the day before the election. In case the message wasn't clear enough, that same day, Lockport sent a text blast to workers threatening that they would lose their flexible schedules if they voted yes and urging them to vote no. Lockport followed up with robocalls to workers' phones reiterating its "vote no" message.

      On the morning of the election, mercenary consultants hired by Lockport in response to the workers' organizing effort joined Lockport officials in the parking lot near the voting tent where the election took place. The group surveilled workers as they drove into the parking lot and walked into the tent to vote. The group positioned themselves such that workers had to walk past them in order to vote; there was no way to avoid them.

      Unsurprisingly, in this atmosphere tainted by extensive coercion, the election could not and did not serve as an expression of workers' actual, uncoerced preferences. Despite overwhelming majority support for the union at the beginning of the organizing effort, the union lost the election. Lockport's ULP campaign succeeded in crushing the effort and suppressing the Section 7 rights of its workers. 1199 filed a ULP charge detailing all of Lockport's misconduct up through the election. But the ULP campaign didn't even stop with the union's election loss. Lockport invited the technical employee it fired back into the facility and offered her reinstatement - if she would only identify other high-profile union supporters in the bargaining unit. Although she had been out of work and intensively searching for a job since Lockport fired her, she again refused to sell out her coworkers. 1199 filed another ULP charge on her behalf on March 3, 2021. Recognizing the extensive coercion at issue in this case, the Region issued a complaint on 1199's charges on March 4, 2021.3

      1199 understood well in advance of election day that Lockport's intimidation campaign had made a fair election impossible. Conducting an election in this atmosphere made a mockery of the Board's responsibility to conduct elections under "laboratory conditions." But because the



3 Complaint and Notice of Hearing, Lockport Rehab and Health Care Center, NLRB Case 03-CA-269156 (Mar. 4, 2021). The union later requested withdrawal of the Complaint pursuant to a non-Board settlement which provided relief to the workers Lockport illegally fired.

2020 Rule went into effect several months prior, 1199 knew that it could not delay the election with blocking charges, no matter how much evidence it had to prove Lockport's illegal behavior.

      "We knew the election was poisoned, and we would have done anything in our power to delay it until Lockport's intimidation campaign could be remedied," said Kim Gibson, 1199's Organizational Coordinator. She continued: "Workers told us they were terrified of losing their livelihoods because of all of Lockport's threats. They wanted to unionize, but the company did a great job spreading fear throughout the facility, chilling the entire effort. We knew that undoing the effects of this behavior would take time, but because of the new regulation, we could no longer ask the Board to delay the election."

      When asked why a rerun election would not be sufficient, Gibson said, "Workers lost hope after the election. They walked away with the impression that voting in an NLRB election doesn't mean much and that the employer still really controls the environment no matter what the law says." Gibson scoffs when asked if she would have been concerned that the petition would "lose momentum" if the election were delayed by a blocking charge. "By that time, the petition had no momentum. Fear was the only thing that had momentum in that workplace."

      The 2020 Rule rewarded Lockport's lawbreaking, which struck at the very heart of Section 7 rights. Instead of promoting collective bargaining and protecting worker freedom of association under "laboratory conditions," the 2020 Rule ensured that the Lockport election proceeded under coercive conditions.

D. The 2020 Rule had no reasoned basis for eliminating blocking charges

      The 2020 Rule failed to articulate a reasoned explanation justifying its changes. The 2020 Rule's central argument against 80 years of agency practice was that blocking charges could interfere with worker free choice in cases where workers are determined to oust their union but the union has filed unmeritorious blocking charges to delay its ouster as long as possible.4 But then-available evidence suggested that no such problem exists, and no new evidence is to the contrary. And even were such a problem to develop in the future, the Board's existing safeguards are adequate to address it and worked exactly as intended before the 2020 Rule.

1. The 2020 Rule was not supported by evidence

      If blocking charges prevented workers from ousting unions, one would expect to see workers vote out their unions as soon as elections are unblocked. In other words, were the 2020 Rule's driving concern a reality, decertification elections following the lifting of blocking charges should have resulted in widespread union defeats. The 2020 Rule did not even attempt to make such a showing, and the evidence that is available is to the contrary.



4 This animating concern of the 2020 Rule did not apply to most blocking charges. As persuasively demonstrated in the comments of the AFL-CIO and NABTU, the majority of blocking charges were filed by petitioners themselves in representation petition ("RC") cases, not by unions facing a potential ouster in decertification petition ("RD") cases. If a charging party worried that its blocking request was robbing its own petition of "momentum," it could request rescission of the blocking request. 2017 NLRB Casehandling Manual, Representation Proceedings, Section 11731.1(b).

      According to data produced by the Board in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request, in Fiscal Years 2013 - 2019, 128 once-blocked decertification petitions were unblocked and allowed to proceed. SEIU Analysis of Data Produced by National Labor Relations Board in Response to FOIA Request No. NLRB-2019-001262 (after removing duplicates). The data appear to contain many duplicates and omissions which cast doubt on its integrity. Compare, e.g., 2019 Proposed Rule, Majority Appendix B available at https://www.nlrb.gov/sites/default/files/attachments/basic-page/node-7583/majority-appendix-b- reformatted-tables-1-4.pdf (listing Spa Products Import and Distribution Co., Case No. 31-RD- 183064 as blocked for 288 days) with Data Produced by National Labor Relations Board in Response to FOIA Request No. NLRB-2019-001262 (listing same case without any indication of a "Request to Block" or "Blocking/Unblocking Letter Issued"). However, even taking the prior Board's FOIA data at face value, workers voted against union representation in just 26 (20.3%) of the 128 cases. SEIU Analysis of Data Produced by National Labor Relations Board in Response to FOIA Request No. NLRB-2019-001262 (after removing duplicates). In the remaining 102 cases (79.7%), the union either won an election to maintain its status or the anti- union petition was otherwise disposed of (including by the petitioner's voluntary withdrawal and by Board dismissal). Id.

      Further, had unions been filing unmeritorious blocking charges in cases where employers were not actually coercing workers regarding their choice in an election, one would expect to see a majority of blocking charges dismissed after an investigation or at least after final Board adjudication. Again, here, the 2020 Rule made no effort to find such a trend in the data.

      The dissent to the 2019 Proposed Rule did conduct such an inquiry and found, with respect to fiscal years 2016 and 2017, that (1) the overwhelming majority (80%) of decertification petitions were never blocked, and (2) in the minority of cases involving blocked elections, blocking charges had merit most (66%) of the time. 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,943 - 39,944 (Member McFerran dissenting). This "merit rate" was nearly twice the merit rate of filed unfair labor practice charges overall. Id. at 39,944 (Member McFerran dissenting). And, of course, the fact that a charge is found to lack merit does not alone indicate that it was filed in bad faith. Id. at 39,943 (Member McFerran dissenting). Likewise, the Board's final dismissal of unfair labor practice allegations does not by itself suggest that the allegations were lodged in bad faith. The majority that issued the 2020 Rule had dismissed countless good-faith allegations regarding conduct that any reasonable worker or union would understand to plainly "interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in section
7." 29 U.S.C. § 158(a). See, e.g., Walmart Stores, 368 NLRB No. 24 (2019); Preferred Building
Services, 366 NLRB No. 159 (2018); UPMC, 368 NLRB No. 2 (2019); Electrolux Home
Products, 368 NLRB No. 34 (2019); Alstate Maintenance, 367 NLRB No. 68 (2019).

      Even the data the Board relied on to establish the mere length of delays in the 2019 Proposed Rule, which led to the 2020 Rule, contained logical errors and mathematical impossibilities, as discovered in a Bloomberg Law investigation. Alex Ebert & Hassan Kanu, Federal Labor Board Used Flawed Data to Back Union Election Rule, Bloomberg Law Daily Labor Report (Dec. 5, 2019) available at https://news.bloomberglaw.com/daily-labor- report/federal-labor-board-used-flawed-data-to-back-union-election-rule-1. Bloomberg Law found that "The board's data over-counted delays in more than one-third of cases -55 in all -in which they said blocking charges were filed. In those cases, the board listed a statistical

impossibility: a delay that exceeded the total number of days between when a petition to approve or de-certify a union was filed and when an election was actually held, after the NLRB investigated a blocking charge." Id. (emphasis added). This included "overshooting the mark in one instance by more than 12 years, and in another by five years." Id. The 2019 Proposed Rule also counted each of the three following cases twice: Waste Management of Pennsylvania, Inc., 06-RD-216734; Hospital Damas, Inc., 12-RC-217728; and Hospital Damas, Inc. 12-RC-217749. Id. Additionally, as then Member McFerran indicated, at least two cases described by 2019 Proposed Rule as "blocked petitions pending" did not actually involve petitions blocked as a result of the blocking charge policy. 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,946 (Member McFerran dissenting). These basic factual errors call into question the very foundation of the 2020 Rule and should alone justify its rescission. The 2020 Board insisted that its policy preferences justified the 2020 Rule even without reference to the flawed data in the 2019 Proposed Rule, but it never corrected the errors, which taints the rulemaking as a whole.
Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,903.

      Without support in data, the 2020 Rule retreats to the proposition that blocking charges delay elections because investigating and remedying ULPs take time. 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. 18,378. As then Member McFerran and many commenters noted, this merely proves "the obvious," i.e., that blocking charges block elections. 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,943 (Member McFerran dissenting). Again, the 2020 Rule made no effort to identify the percentage of blocking charges that were actually meritorious. In other words, while the 2020 Board repeatedly noted that blocking charges delay elections, it made no effort to analyze whether those delays were warranted. See Levitz Furniture Co., 333 NLRB 717, 731 n.57 (2001) (". . . it is immaterial that elections may be delayed or prevented by blocking charges, because when charges have merit, elections should be prevented.").

      Hoping to find support in anecdotal evidence, the 2020 Rule focused on a protracted delay between the filing and processing of a decertification petition in Cablevision Systems Corp., 367 NLRB No. 59 (2018). However, what the Cablevision example actually shows is not any unwarranted delay but, as found by three administrative law judges, meritorious charges stemming from multifaceted employer misconduct that polluted the atmosphere surrounding an election petition and that made any earlier expression of employee free choice impossible. See id. In other words, the delay in Cablevision was the direct result of employer misconduct, not any unmeritorious union blocking charges - and the 2020 Rule only encourages that exact same employer misconduct in the future by allowing elections to proceed before it can be remedied.

2. Safeguards predating the 2020 Rule prevent the abuse of blocking charges

      Pre-2020 practice included several safeguards against the abuse of blocking charges, and the 2020 Rule never demonstrated that these safeguards were not up to their task. The Proposed Rule is correct to retain them along with blocking charges.

      First, before the 2020 Rule, Regional Directors already had discretion to deny a union's request to block an election petition "where . . . the regional director is of the opinion that the employees could, under the circumstances, exercise their free choice in an election and that the R[epresentation] case should proceed notwithstanding the existence of a concurrent . . . unfair

labor practice case." See 2017 NLRB Casehandling Manual, Representation Proceedings, Section 11731.2. This included cases where a union alleged "minor and isolated" unlawful conduct predating the petition. See 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,945 (Member McFerran dissenting).

      Second, the Board already had discretion to direct an election notwithstanding a pending charge where "an immediate election will effectuate the policies of the Act," including circumstances suggesting abuse of blocking charges or undue delays. See West-Gate Sun Harbor Co., 93 NLRB 830, 831-32 (1951) (union filed charge and request to block the day before an election and the Board held that "effectuation of the policies of the Act required the holding of an immediate election . . . [and] the Regional Director properly refused to postpone the election" in view of, inter alia, "the [union's] 'eleventh hour' filing of its charges"); Korber Hats, 122 NLRB 1000, 1002 (1959) (Board found Regional Director properly exercised discretion to direct election notwithstanding pending charges where "the charges were filed almost on the eve of the election" and "the Union was not prejudiced by the fact that the election took place before the charges were dismissed, since the charges were subsequently found by the Regional Director to be without merit."); Columbia Pictures Corp., 81 NLRB 1313, 1315 n.9 (1949) (directing immediate election notwithstanding pending charges because of "the length of time this proceeding has been pending, the fact that the employees in the unit have been without representation for collective bargaining purposes during that period, and the dismissal of the earlier charges, which charges were apparently grounded upon the same basic pattern of conduct as the pending charge"); Dumont Elec. Corp. , 97 NLRB 94, 95 (1951) ("We do not agree with the [union's] contention that the pendency of unfair labor practice charges per se precludes an untrammeled expression of choice in the selection of a bargaining representative by the employees in an election conducted under Board auspices . . . we agree with the Regional Director's conclusion that in this case the [union] was not prejudiced by the fact that the election took place before the charges were dismissed. It is clear now that the allegations of improper conduct made in the charge were unwarranted."); see also New York Shipping Association, 107 NLRB 364, 376 (1953) (ordering immediate election notwithstanding pending charges where controversy concerning representation was at the heart of a labor dispute that President Eisenhower deemed a national emergency).

      Third, the Board already amended its election procedures in 2014 and imposed a new requirement "that a party requesting the blocking of an election based on an unfair labor practice charge make a simultaneous offer of proof, provide a witness list, and promptly make those witnesses available." 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,932 (Member McFerran dissenting) citing Representation-Case Procedures, 79 Fed. Reg. 7,318, 7,334 (Feb. 6, 2014).
Under this provision, "[i]f the regional director determine[d] that the party's offer of proof does not describe evidence that, if proven, would interfere with employee free choice in an election or would be inherently inconsistent with the petition itself . . . the regional director [] continue[d] to process the petition and conduct the election where appropriate." 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed.
Reg. at 39,942 (Member McFerran dissenting). This safeguard helped Regional Directors more quickly separate baseless charges from charges supported by evidence. It also deterred the filing of frivolous charges because charges had no blocking effect unless immediately substantiated with an offer of proof. The 2020 Rule itself conceded that blocked petitions declined after implementation of this safeguard and even "accept[ed] as plausible" that there was a causal connection. 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,377. The early indications that the 2014 amendments

already reduced the number of blocked elections further counseled against the 2020 Rule's changes.

      These checks provide ample protection against any abuse of blocking charges, and the 2020 Rule offered no evidence that they are not up to the job. In fact, the 2020 Rule explicitly declined to further study the adequacy of the offer-of-proof requirement, refusing to conduct any data analysis but instead retreating to the anecdotal suggestion that "at least some meritless unfair labor practice charges are still being filed, notwithstanding the . . . requirement of a submission of a perfunctory offer of proof." 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,379 (emphasis added). The 2020 Rule asserted that "the offer-of-proof requirement is likely to result in prompt dismissal or withdrawal of only the most obviously meritless charges," but failed to conduct any deeper analysis to determine whether that assertion was supported by evidence. Id.

II. The Board should restore the pre-2020 voluntary recognition bar

A. Background

      The NLRA explicitly provides workers with two paths to union representation: Board- supervised elections and employers' voluntary recognition of a union based on a showing of majority worker support. See 29 U.S.C. § 159(a) ("Representatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees . . . shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such unit	") (emphasis added); 29 U.S.C. § 159(c)(1)
("Whenever a petition shall have been filed	alleging that a substantial number of employees .
. . wish to be represented for collective bargaining and that their employer declines to recognize their representative	the Board shall investigate such petition and if it has reasonable cause to
believe that a question of representation affecting commerce exists shall provide for an appropriate hearing upon due notice.") (emphasis added). Outside the Section 8(f) context not discussed in these comments, a showing of genuine majority support is mandatory; it is unlawful for an employer to recognize a union without majority support or with majority support that has been tainted by employer or union coercion. Lamons Gasket Co., 357 NLRB 739, 740 (2011).

      The Board and the Supreme Court have repeatedly affirmed these two paths to union representation. See NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 596-597 (1969) ("Almost from the inception of the Act	it was recognized that a union did not have to be certified as the
winner of a Board election to invoke a bargaining obligation; it could establish majority status by other means	[including] by possession of cards signed by a majority of the employees
authorizing the union to represent them for collective bargaining purposes."); United Mine Workers v. Arkansas Oak Flooring Co., 351 U.S. 62, 72 (1956) ("A Board election is not the only method by which an employer may satisfy itself as to the union's majority status."); Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 740 ("Congress has expressly recognized the legality of employers' voluntary recognition of their employees' freely chosen representative, as well as the place of such voluntary recognition in the statutory system of workplace representation."); Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 434, 436 (2007) ("Voluntary recognition itself predates the National Labor Relations Act and is undisputedly lawful under it.").

      Because "a bargaining relationship once rightfully established must be permitted to exist and function for a reasonable period in which it can be given a fair chance to succeed," the Board

in 1966 established a policy barring challenges to a majority-chosen union's status for a reasonable period following lawful voluntary recognition. Keller Plastics Eastern, 157 NLRB 583, 587 (1966) quoting Franks Bros. Co. v. NLRB, 321 U.S. 702, 705 (1944); Sound
Contractors, 162 NLRB 364, 365 (1966). This "voluntary recognition bar" governed from 1966 to September 2007 and from August 2011 through the effective date of the 2020 Rule.
In September 2007, the Board in Dana Corp. weakened the voluntary recognition bar by permitting "a minority of employees [to] . . . immediately . . . challenge the freely expressed will of the majority" that supplied the basis for recognition. Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 739. "Dana established a 45-day 'window period' after voluntary recognition during which employees may file a decertification petition supported by a 30-percent showing of interest.
Dana further required that, in order to start the running of the 45-day window period after voluntary recognition, employers must post an official Board notice informing employees of their newly created right to seek an election within the 45-day period to oust the lawfully recognized union." Id.

      During the 3 years and 11 months following Dana, workers decertified their union representatives in only 1.2% of cases where Dana notices were requested. Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 742. This led the Board to recognize in 2011 that, "contrary to the Dana majority's assumption, the proof of majority support that underlay the voluntary recognition during the past 4 years was a highly reliable measure of employee sentiment," and therefore, "the data demonstrate[d] that the empirical assumption underlying [Dana] was erroneous." 2019 Proposed Rule, 84 Fed. Reg. at 39,950 (Member McFerran dissenting) quoting Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 742-43. This data-grounded conclusion caused the Board to reverse Dana in Lamons Gasket and return to the traditional voluntary recognition bar that governed Board cases for the 41 years preceding Dana.

The 2020 Rule returned to Dana, codifying its already-discredited approach.

B. Weakening the voluntary recognition bar destabilizes nascent bargaining relationships, contravening a central purpose of the NLRA

      The Board and courts have long recognized that a core purpose of the NLRA is the "preservation of the stability of bargaining relationships." MV Transportation, 337 NLRB 770 (2002). The voluntary recognition bar serves this interest by barring for a reasonable period challenges to a voluntarily recognized, majority-chosen union's status as workers' representative. This ensures the stability of nascent bargaining relationships and gives initial bargaining a chance to succeed. Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,910. By contrast, if employers understand that recognized unions are subject to immediate challenge and potential ouster, they will have less incentive to engage in serious bargaining with a genuine intent to reach agreement. As the Supreme Court has recognized, "[a] union should be given ample time for carrying out its mandate on behalf of its members, and should not be under exigent pressure to produce hothouse results or be turned out." Brooks v. NLRB, 348 U.S. 96, 100 (1954).

      Although the 2020 Rule pays lip service to the proposition that voluntary recognition is an entirely legitimate, NLRA-approved means of winning union representation, the rule's changes signal to workers that voluntary recognition is "inherently suspect," casting doubt on the majority-chosen union's status. Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 743; see also id. at 744 ("In no

other context does the Board require that employees be given notice of their right to change their minds about a recent exercise of statutory rights."). While the "Act is wholly neutral when it comes to [employees'] basic choice of whether to be represented," the required "notice scheme established in Dana is not." Id. quoting NLRB v. Savair Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 270, 278 (1973) (internal quotation marks omitted).5

      The 2020 Rule flashes the same signal at employers: It discourages them from choosing voluntary recognition in the first instance because there is "little incentive to voluntarily recognize a union if such recognition subsequently [can] be called into question - perhaps after months of productive bargaining between the parties - by a minority group of employees that disfavors the union." Seattle Mariners, 335 NLRB 563, 565 (2001). Also, even "assuming the union were to prevail in a [resulting] decertification election . . . the election nevertheless would have the deleterious consequence of disrupting the nascent relationship between the employer and union pending the outcome of the election and any subsequent proceedings." Id. (emphasis added). This disruption comes at the worst possible time: the fragile period before the parties have agreed to a first contract. In recent years, even when workers manage to win union representation, only about 36 percent of new union representatives have reached a first contract with an employer within a year of being elected (down from 48 percent in a 2009 study). See In Solidarity: Removing Barriers to Organizing: Hearing Before the H. Comm. on Educ. and Lab., 117th Cong. 10 (2022) (statement of Dr. Kate Bronfenbrenner, Senior Lecturer and Director of Labor Education Research, Cornell School of Industrial and Labor Relations) available at https://ecommons.cornell.edu/bitstream/handle/1813/111838/Bronfenbrenner106%20Housetesti monyfinal9142022.pdf?sequence=2&isAllowed=y; see also Kate Bronfenbrenner, No Holds Barred: The Intensification of Employer Opposition to Organizing, Economic Policy Institute, 22 (May 20, 2009) available at https://www.epi.org/files/page/-/pdf/bp235.pdf.

C. The 2020 Rule had no reasoned basis for weakening the voluntary recognition bar

      Preserving stable bargaining is only one part of the Board's mission. Equally important is its mandate to promote and protect worker free choice. In cases where these twin purposes are in tension, the Board must strike an appropriate balance between them. See, e.g., Deluxe Metal Furniture Co., 121 NLRB 995, 997 (1958) (describing Board's efforts to "achiev[e] a finer balance between the oftentimes conflicting policy considerations of fostering stability in labor relations while assuring conditions conducive to the exercise of free choice by employees.").

      Thus, if the voluntary recognition bar were actually shown to have undermined workers' power to make a truly free choice regarding representation, the Board would have reason to reevaluate the balance struck. This is how the 2020 Rule characterizes its change: an effort to protect worker free choice from the suppressive effect of the voluntary recognition bar. 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,368. The problem, however, is that available evidence once again undercut the factual assumptions on which the 2020 Rule was built. No available evidence


5 SEIU agrees with the AFL-CIO and NABTU that the 2020 Rule violated the Administrative Procedure Act by failing to respond to comments on the 2019 Proposed Rule pointing out that the Dana notice scheme conflicts with the Board's duty to be neutral regarding workers' choices concerning representation.

suggests that the voluntary recognition bar suppressed employee free choice; on the contrary, evidence suggests that the bar safeguarded both bargaining stability and worker free choice.

      First consider the evidence produced by the Dana experiment itself. Between 2007 and 2011, Dana controlled, enabling the Board to assess its results. Lamons Gasket did just that in 2011 and found that once freed from the voluntary recognition bar, workers ousted their union representatives in only 1.2% of cases in which a Dana notice was requested. Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 742. Further, according to FOIA data cited in the 2019 Proposed Rule, workers only requested an election in 8% of cases in which a Dana notice was requested. See UFCW Analysis of Data Produced by National Labor Relations Board in Response to FOIA Request No. NLRB- 2019-001262. This convincingly debunks the 2020 Rule's assumption that voluntary recognition is not a reliable indicator of employee choice.

      Evidence from the period between Lamons Gasket in 2011 and the 2020 Rule bolsters this conclusion. Although evidence from this period cannot be directly on point because Dana was no longer operative, it offers helpful guidance. If the end of Dana undermined worker free choice by barring decertification efforts that would otherwise have been successful, one would expect to find an increase after Lamons Gasket in meritorious charges alleging that employers violated the NLRA by voluntarily recognizing unions that did not in fact have majority support. But between fiscal years 2012 and 2019, only eight of 320 "unlawful recognition" cases (2.5%) resulted in a Board order. Seventy-seven cases were dismissed and ninety were withdrawn by the charging party without a settlement. See UFCW Analysis of Data Produced by National Labor Relations Board in Response to FOIA Request No. NLRB-2019-001262.

      The limited evidence available with respect to the period after the effective date of the 2020 Rule points in the same direction. As the Proposed Rule documents:

To date, the current rule has resulted in scant instances of employees actually filing a petition and almost no instances of employees rejecting the voluntarily recognized union. Thus, only
0.4 percent of cases (1 out of 260 included cases) resulted in a petition being filed, and 0.4 percent resulted in a union's loss of representative status. Both data sets show that the number of instances in which the notices have resulted in the filing of a petition or holding an election is vanishingly small - and the cases where the voluntarily recognized union was displaced to be almost nothing. It seems illuminating that the post-[2020 Rule] data show no significant change from the post-Dana data, suggesting that the low rate of election-petition filing and employee rejection of the voluntarily recognized union is consistent over time.

      Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,911. In other words, data from both the Dana period and the post-2020 Rule period indicates that the notice procedure is almost always a fruitless exercise. The agency should not use its still-inadequate resources on such a project. Proposed Rule, 87 Fed. Reg. at 66,909.

      In addition to the statistical evidence, common sense dictates that the voluntary recognition bar protects employee free choice. Voluntary recognition must be premised on a showing of uncoerced support from the majority of the workers in the unit. By contrast, the 2020 Rule "allows [a] minority to thwart, or at the very least work against, the majority, by creating a disincentive to meaningful collective bargaining at the same time it gives that minority the opportunity to marshal support for ousting the union," a result "contrary to the principle of majority rule on which the Act is premised." Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 434, 447 (2007) (Members Liebman and Walsh dissenting in part) (emphasis added). The 2020 Rule's change to the voluntary recognition bar frustrates the choice made by a majority of workers to obtain effective union representation. See Smith's Food & Drug, 320 NLRB 844, 848 (1996) (Chairman Gould, concurring) ("When employees execute authorization cards during a union organizing drive, their hope is to obtain union representation as soon as possible. The Board provides no benefit to these employees by delaying the implementation of their designation in order to reconfirm through an election the desires they have already expressed.").

      It is also important to note that voluntary recognition requires a higher level of worker support than elections because a union can win a Board-supervised election by receiving a majority of votes cast, but, to be voluntarily recognized, a union must show that a majority of all employees eligible to vote support the union.6 Compare RCA Mfg. Co., 2 NLRB 159, 177-78 (1936) with Ladies' Garment Workers v. NLRB (Bernhard-Altmann) 366 U.S. 731, 737-38 n.4 (1961). In Lamons Gasket, the Board observed that "[i]n fiscal year 2010, turnout in Board supervised elections was 80.7 percent. In other words, on average, the choice of only 40 percent plus one of employees in a unit could bind all of their coworkers for a period of at least 12 months after an election while it took at least 50 percent to obtain representation pursuant to voluntary recognition." Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 746. It makes sense that after achieving the substantial showing required for voluntary recognition, unions almost never lost subsequent decertification elections during the Dana years.

      Lacking support in evidence and common sense, the 2020 Board found itself rehashing the policy arguments of the Dana majority that were debunked by the Board's actual experience implementing Dana. The 2020 Board claimed to be persuaded anew by the same old arguments, particularly the arguments that signed showings of support are inferior to elections because (1) "card signings are public actions, susceptible to group pressure exerted at the moment of choice"; (2) "employees often sign cards due to misunderstandings, misrepresentations, or lack of information about the consequences of unionization"; and (3) a "Board election . . . presents a clear picture of employee voter preference at a single moment." 2020 Rule, 85 Fed. Reg. at 18,381.

      The 2020 Rule cited no data substantiating these concerns (which, as demonstrated above, are contravened by the data that do exist), and the 2020 majority's own conduct makes it even more difficult to take them seriously. It is striking that the 2020 Board's argument regarding the superiority of elections comes within the very same rule as its provisions tainting


6 Members of the Board majority that issued the 2020 Rule have thereafter expressed concerns about participation rates in mail ballot elections. See Starbucks Corp., 371 NLRB No. 154, slip op. at 7 n.22 (2022) (Members Ring and Kaplan dissenting). These concerns are in tension with the same majority's hostility toward a procedure which indisputably requires higher participation than Board elections.

elections by allowing them to move ahead amid illegal and unremedied employer coercion. The 2020 Rule also stands in glaring contrast with the same majority's reasoning in Johnson Controls. There, the Board held that a union may lose the status it won in a Board-supervised election solely as a result of a signed-card majority in favor of ousting the union - even in cases where a subsequent signed-card majority favors keeping the union representative. 368 NLRB No. 20 (2019). In other words, the 2020 majority claimed to prefer elections but did so only when that preference served its policy goal of making unionization more difficult; when majority signup furthered that policy goal, the same majority abandoned its asserted preference for elections and permitted a signup to trump an election. Only one thing was constant about the 2020 Board's approach: forming or keeping a union became harder and ousting a union became easier.

      Importantly, safeguards against unlawful recognition predating the 2020 Rule prevent the voluntary recognition bar from undermining worker free choice. Recognizing a union without majority support violates the Act, and aggrieved workers may obtain a Board order directing "the employer not to recognize or bargain with the union" and directing the union "not to accept recognition, until the union is certified by the Board following a Board-supervised election." Lamons Gasket, 357 NLRB at 746-47. If an employer violates the NLRA by entering into a voluntary recognition agreement with an unsupported union and deducts dues or fees pursuant to a union security clause, "it is jointly and severally liable with the union to repay the deductions." Id. at 747. These remedies ensure that the voluntary recognition bar protects only the genuine choice made by a majority of workers.

CONCLUSION

      SEIU urges the Board to swiftly finalize the Proposed Rule, which would restore the state of the law predating the 2020 Rule. The 2020 Rule's elimination of blocking charges frustrates worker free choice in union elections by forcing workers to vote amid unremedied employer coercion. Available evidence undercuts the 2020 Board's proffered reasons for this departure from 80 years of Board practice. The 2020 Rule's change to the voluntary recognition bar also undermines workers' free choice and disrupts labor relations. Like the elimination of blocking charges, this change had no support in available evidence. Both 2020 provisions contravene the core purposes of the NLRA. The Proposed Rule is right to reverse them.

Submitted February 2, 2023	SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION




Steven K. Ury
Co-General Counsel

John M. D'Elia
Assistant General Counsel


