



February 1, 2023


Ms. Roxanne L. Rothschild Executive Secretary
National Labor Relations Board 1015 Half Street S.E. Washington, DC 20570-0001

Via electronic submission: http://www.regulations.gov

Re: Proposed Rule, National Labor Relations Board; Representation-Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective- Bargaining Relationships (87 Fed. Reg. 66,890-66,933, November 4, 2022).

Dear Ms. Rothschild:

     The U.S. Chamber of Commerce ("the Chamber") is pleased to submit these comments to the National Labor Relations Board ("the Board" or "NLRB"), pursuant to its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Request for Comments regarding Representation: Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry Collective-Bargaining Relationships, 87 Fed. Reg. No. 213, 66890 (November 4, 2022) ("NPRM").

     We oppose the proposed changes contemplated by the NPRM because they would not benefit employers and employees, they would inhibit free choice and majority-based decision-making, and they would reimpose barriers to eliminating unwanted representation.

     Moreover, the proposed rule would rescind a final rule (the "Election Protection Rule") adopted not even three years ago, which the Chamber supported (See Representation Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction-Industry Collective Bargaining Relationships, 85 Fed. Reg. No. 63, 18366 (April 1, 2020)). Inasmuch as the Chamber supported that final rule, it opposes the current effort to undo the positive reforms that the Election Protection Rule promulgated.

     As the dissent notes, this proposal "is the product of a new majority's disagreement with the 2020 Rule, which they propose to rescind not because they must, but because they can."1 It is neither helpful nor constructive for the NLRB to reinstate flawed policies and create "needless policy oscillation ... that tends to upset the settled expectations of the Agency's stakeholders."2 Furthermore, this proposal represents another shift that will impede the right of employees to consider and vote on the issue of union representation while protecting entrenched union representation that does not truly enjoy majority support of the employees. That is not the job of the NLRB, which is supposed to be a neutral arbiter rather than a pro-union, activist entity.


1) The Proposed Change to the Blocking Charge Rule would Harm Employees and Employers by Incentivizing Stalling Tactics.

     As the Chamber noted in its comments regarding the 2020 Election Protection Rule, prior to that rule's promulgation if an unfair labor practice ("ULP") charge was filed while an election petition was pending (most likely an RD petition), the petition could be "blocked," which is to say, postponed needlessly.

     This fact allowed an election to be delayed until a full investigation of the charge was conducted. If merit was found, the election could be delayed until the violation was litigated or settled. In effect, the practice allowed unions to manipulate the NLRB's rules to hold off decertification petitions based on the filing of meritless ULP charges. Because the prior policy often resulted in significant delays in voting, it undermined the fundamental goal of the National Labor Relations Act ("NLRA" or "Act") to promote employee free choice in the matter of representation, which includes removing unwanted union representation.

     Taking into consideration public comments, the 2020 Election Protection Rule modified the NLRB's original proposal with respect to blocking charges. Rather than implement a "vote-and-impound" procedure in all cases, the final rule limited impoundment to cases in which a ULP filed by the party seeking to block an election alleges violations of certain sections of the Act. Specifically, it limited impoundments to ULPs alleging violations of Section 8(a)(1) and 8(a)(2) or Section 8(b)(1)(A) or in



1 87 Fed. Reg. No. 213, 66915 (November 4, 2022).
2 Id.

instances in which the employer has unlawfully (in violation of Section 8(a)(2)) dominated a union and is seeking to end the bargaining relationship with the union.

     Under those circumstances, the 2020 final rule prescribed up to a 60-day impoundment period after the election if the ULP charge has not been withdrawn or dismissed or if no complaint is issued before the conclusion of the election. However, if a complaint is issued prior to the 60-day period then the impoundment of ballots continues until the ULP charge and its potential effect on the election are adjudicated. In the event that the ULP charge is withdrawn, dismissed, or no complaint is issued within the 60-day impoundment period, then the ballots are counted. In addition, the filing of additional ULP charges will not extend the 60-day impoundment period, and ULP charges other than those referenced above will not cause votes to be impounded.

     The 2020 final rule provided protection to employees because the vote-and- impound procedure permits them to express their views without delays caused by contested charges. Such delays can last years, saddling workers with an unwanted union and potentially forcing them to unwillingly pay union dues or fees. However, the vote-and-impound rule also protects unions. If actual, meaningful misconduct by an employer has occurred, just as in any election where the union is free to file objections and ULP charges following the election, the Board will set aside the election and either schedule a new election or issue a bargaining order.

     With its current proposal, the NLRB seeks to rescind the important protections afforded to employees by the 2020 Election Protection Rule, and the Chamber reiterates its critique of the status quo ante to which the Board seeks to revert.
Specifically, prior to the 2020 rule, labor unions exploited the Board's blocking charge policy to cause unwarranted delays-sometimes for months or years- with frivolous ULP charges, which deprived employees of their right to vote, particularly when the vote would determine whether or not to decertify the union. This situation greatly favored labor unions seeking to retain their status as the collective bargaining representative of employees who had petitioned to decertify it.

     By allowing continued delays, the NLRB provided organized labor with the opportunity to undermine employees' efforts to decertify their union, either through active campaigning on the part of labor representatives or through attrition. Either way, the Board's blocking charge policy as it existed before 2020 failed to safeguard employees' fundamental right under the NLRA to determine whether or not to be represented by a labor union and, if so, by which one. The current NPRM would restore this lamentable situation for no discernable reason other than to please labor

unions that would rather not face competition or demonstrate their value to the employees they represent or hope to represent.

     The dissent recounts certain examples in which unions have managed to stretch out the processing of blocking charges for years. Moreover, the dissent also cites numerous federal appellate court decisions criticizing the impact of the NLRB's blocking charge policy prior to the 2020 Election Protection Rule, and the Chamber reiterates those criticisms. The dissent correctly notes that there were "glaring deficiencies"3 in the NLRB's blocking-charge policy prior to 2020, and the Chamber similarly encourages the Board to take into more complete consideration what those deficiencies were in its deliberations about this proposal.

     The role of the NLRB is not to protect labor unions, but, rather, employees, who could have innumerable reasons for wanting to replace or remove their bargaining representative. Meanwhile, labor unions have a vested interest in protecting their status as bargaining representatives. If employees do decide their interests lie in either replacing or removing their union, the NLRB's proposal would protect the union at their expense. Thus, the current proposal runs contrary to the NLRB's statutory responsibility of promoting employee free choice when it comes to representation and as such is fundamentally flawed.


2) The Proposed Change to the Voluntary Recognition Bar

     The NLRB's proposal to undo the Election Protection Rule's modifications to the Voluntary Recognition Bar is similarly flawed, and the Chamber opposes this aspect of the NPRM accordingly. Inasmuch as the Board has long allowed employers to voluntarily recognize a union without an NLRB-supervised secret ballot election, the Election Protection Rule addressed important issues to better protect the rights of employees to challenge such recognition. The current NPRM would remove those protections to the detriment of those employees' rights.

     As the Chamber noted in its comments for the Election Protection Rule, a union may demand recognition from an employer based on signed "authorization cards" that ostensibly demonstrate support for the union by a majority of the employer's employees. Employers presented with these cards may nevertheless demand an election, but they may also choose to recognize the union voluntarily, perhaps to avoid a costly and/or disruptive organizing campaign or for other various reasons.

3 Id. at 66917.

     Notwithstanding the signatures on authorization cards, however, the Supreme Court has called them "admittedly inferior to the [NLRB] election process."4 The reason for that observation is that they may not actually reflect the true sentiments of the employees. In some cases, the signatures may be collected using forms that lead employees to believe they are only indicating their interest in holding a representation election. In other cases, they may be collected using harassment, intimidation, or coercion.

     However, even if cards are collected using questionable tactics, the Board's policy prior to the Election Protection Rule prevented employees from having an NLRB-supervised secret ballot election. Voluntary recognition of a union by an employer has long been legal, as the NPRM correctly notes, and the Board announced the recognition-bar doctrine in 1966 when it said:

[T]he parties must be afforded a reasonable time to bargain and to execute the contracts resulting from such bargaining. Such negotiations can succeed, however, and the policies of the Act can thereby be effectuated, only if the parties can normally rely on the continuing representative status of the lawfully recognized union for a reasonable period of time.5

     Over several decades, however, the NLRB's recognition-bar doctrine developed through case law in such a way that the Board applied the bar even when significant questions about employees' ability to freely choose with respect to union representation.

      In 2007, the Board modified the recognition-bar doctrine to address these significant questions with its decision in Dana Corp. saying, "The current policy fails to give adequate weight to the substantial differences between Board elections and union authorization card solicitations as reliable indicators of employee free choice on union representation."6 In that decision, the Board held that after voluntary recognition of a union is granted by an employer, the employees in question had to be provided adequate notice of both the recognition as well as notice that they have 45 days to file a petition with the NLRB to seek an election. It determined that:

[t]he greater uncertainty surrounding the showing of majority support for a voluntarily recognized union, as opposed to a certified union, justifies delaying

4 NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. at 603.
5 Keller Plastics Eastern, Inc., 157 NLRB 583 (1966).
6 Dana Corp., 351 NLRB 438.

the election bar for a brief period during which the unit employees, having been informed of the voluntary recognition agreement and the availability of a limited window period for filing a petition with the Board, can debate among themselves whether a Board-conducted election is preferred.7

     As the Chamber noted in 2019 comments on the Election Protection Rule NPRM, "the condition placed on voluntary recognition by the Dana Corp. rule strikes the 'the proper balance between two important but often competing interests under the National Labor Relations Act: 'protecting employee freedom of choice on the one hand, and promoting stability of bargaining relationships on the other.'"8

     However, the Board's 2011 decision in Lammons Gasket Company reversed the modified recognition-bar requirements set forth in Dana Corp.9 In doing so, the Board removed a basic protection afforded to employees whose employers choose to voluntarily recognize a union. The 45-day window set by Dana Corp. was a reasonable time frame in which employees could demonstrate interest in having a representation election after being notified of the recognition.

     The 2020 Election Protection Rule restored the protections for employees that Dana Corp. sought to guarantee. To the extent that the current proposal seeks to restore its immediate voluntary recognition-bar policy as it existed under Lammons Gasket, it again is a flawed idea. The result would be a minimum six-month period up to a year after bargaining begins (as opposed to after voluntary recognition is given) during which employees would be denied the freedom to choose their own representative. As the dissent in the current NPRM observes, "[e]mployees should have the right to test the validity of a voluntary recognition. The Board need not and should not accept possibly unsupported voluntary recognitions at any frequency, particularly considering that a simple procedure to prevent them is available and already in place."


3) Proof of Majority-Based Recognition Under Section 9(a) in the Construction Industry

     Finally, the Chamber opposes the proposed changes to the proof required to show majority support in the construction industry and convert agreements made


7 Id. at 442.
8 Id. at 434, quoting MV Transportation, 337 NLRB 770 (2002).
9 Lammons Gasket Company, 357 NLRB 739 (2011).

under Section 8(f) of the Act into an agreement under Section 9(a), the latter of which states that:

Representatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes, shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such unit for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, or other conditions of employment...

Nevertheless, the current NPRM would deprive employees input into the selection of their bargaining representative, contrary to the overarching objective of the Act to protect employees' rights in that regard as stated in Section 9(a).

     Prior to the 2020 Election Protection Rule, the process for converting Section 8(f) "pre-hire" agreements in the construction industry to binding bargaining relationships under Section 9(a) was seriously flawed, as the Chamber stated in 2019. Indeed, the NLRB's relevant precedent under Staunton Fuel & Material10 created a process to establish a Section 9(a) bargaining relationship that was subject to abuse. The realities of the construction industry tended to dictate practices under Staunton Fuel, making it difficult for employers to challenge a union's claim of majority support among employees. Thus, as the dissent notes, "unions and employers in the construction industry can install a union as the [S]ection 9(a) representative of the employer's employees through contract language alone, regardless of whether those employees have chosen it as such... ."11

     As the dissent also notes, "the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit has rejected Staunton Fuel repeatedly and emphatically."12 In the Colorado Fire Sprinkler case, the employer continued to execute union contracts that included the union's statement that it had majority support. Despite the fact that the union could not actually demonstrate such support, its statements allowed the employer and the union to create a Section 9(a) agreement. The D.C. Circuit rejected this situation because it ran afoul of the NLRA's fundamental purpose of allowing employees to choose whether or not to have union representation under Section 9(a).

     Nevertheless, the Board continued to adhere to its position under Staunton Fuel that permitted a union and an employer to establish a Section 9(a) bargaining

10 Staunton Fuel & Material, 335 NLRB 717 (2001).
11 87 Fed. Reg. No. 213, 66925 (November 4, 2022).
12 Id., citing Nova Plumbing, Inc. v. NLRB, 330 F.3d 531 (D.C. Cir. 2003) and Colorado Fire Sprinkler, Inc.
v. NLRB, 891 F.3d 1031 (D.C. Cir. 2018).

relationship on the basis of contract language rather than actual majority support among employees. The 2020 Election Protection Rule sought to address this shortcoming in the NLRB's approach to the tension arising under Section 8(f), which Congress enacted to deal with agreements covering employees in the building and construction industry, versus Section 9(a)'s broader goal of ensuring free choice among employees regarding representation.


4) The Board Should Refrain from Adopting This Proposal

     For all the reasons stated above, the Chamber urges the Board not to adopt the various elements of this NPRM. The 2020 Election Protection Rule struck the right balance on each of these issues, whereas this proposal would unwind all the sensible revisions that rule made. The purpose of the NLRA, and ostensibly the Board itself, is to encourage free choice among employees with respect to representation.
Unfortunately, the Board has gradually-and sometimes not so gradually-lurched toward promoting unions' interests above those of the employees the NLRA seeks to protect.

     The appropriate role of the NLRB is to maintain a fair playing field for employees, employers, and unions when it comes to representation, not to foist unionization onto employees. The proposed rule here would instead make it nearly impossible for them to exercise their free choice in determining whether to have union representation and if so by what union. Therefore, the Board should refrain from adopting the proposals outlined in the current NPRM and adhere to the 2020 Election Protection Rule's far more balanced approach.

Respectfully submitted,


Glenn Spencer	Sean P. Redmond
Senior Vice President	Vice President
Employment Policy Division	Employment Policy Division
U.S. Chamber of Commerce	U.S. Chamber of Commerce


