UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD


Re:	Representation - Case Procedures: Election Bars;
Proof of Majority Support in Construction Industry	RIN 3142-AA22 Collective-Bargaining Relationships




Comments of United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, AFL-CIO/CLC (USW)

















            David Jury, General Counsel Zachary Hebert, Assistant General Counsel
Cassandra Maas, Assistant General Counsel United Steelworkers International
60 Boulevard of the Allies, Room 807
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 562-2549
  djury@usw.org zhebert@usw.org cmaas@usw.org

Introduction
      United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, AFL-CIO/CLC ("USW"), submits these comments in response to the National Labor Relations Board's ("NLRB" or "Board") Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ("NPRM"), published at 87 Fed. Reg. No. 213, 66890 (Nov. 4, 2022). USW is an international labor organization headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. USW is the largest industrial union in North America. Our members work in almost every sector of the North American economy, including metals, glass, rubber, paper, plastics, mining, and refineries, as well as healthcare, transportation, utilities, and other services in both the public and private sectors.
      The NPRM proposes three amendments to the rules, involving: (1) the vote-and-impound rule; (2) the voluntary recognition bar; and (3) the Act's Section 9(a) recognition in the construction industry. The proposed changes will dramatically impact many of our members' right to bargain collectively through a union of their own choosing and to engage in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, as these changes will promote stability in the workplace and in bargaining relationships. As discussed more fully below, USW strongly supports enactment of the proposed amendments to the rules. USW is a member of the AFL-CIO and fully supports the comments submitted by the AFL-CIO in response to this NPRM. However, we submit these comments to supplement their positions concerning the Board's vote-and-impound and voluntary recognition bar policies.
I. The Board Should Reestablish the Blocking Charge Policy and Rescind the Vote-and- Impound Rule.
      It would best serve the policies of the National Labor Relations Act ("Act") to reestablish the blocking charge policy. For over 80 years, the blocking charge policy provided regional directors with the authority to delay processing election petitions in the face of pending unlawful conduct that interferes with employee free choice in an election. This policy adheres to the Board's two main functions under the Act. Under Sections 9 and 10 of the Act, the Board is charged with processing employee elections and processing unfair labor practice charges. 29 U.S.C. §§ 159,
160. The blocking charge policy implicates both of the Board's duties. For employee elections, "[t]he right of free choice is...inherent in the principles reflected in § 9(c)(1)(A)." NLRB v. Savair Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 270, 279 (1973). Consequently, the Board should reestablish the policy to ensure employee free choice and to properly discharge its duties under the Act.
a. The Blocking Charge Policy Ensures Employee Free Choice, As Required by the Act.
      A principal concept under the Act is that employees should have freedom of choice as to whether to obtain or retain union representation. 29 U.S.C. § 151. A critical part of protecting this freedom of choice is ensuring that employees are able to vote in an atmosphere free of coercion, so that the results of the election accurately reflect the employees' true desires concerning representation. General Shoe Corp., 77 NLRB 24, 126-27 (1948). The blocking charge policy previously gave regional directors the authority to delay processing election petitions in the face of pending conduct that would interfere with employee free choice in an election. This policy

provides employees with the required freedom of choice regarding representation, and thus the Board should reinstate it as it was before.
      Free choice means that elections should be conducted in an atmosphere that is free from any type of coercive behavior. Prior to the 2020 rule, the Board's longstanding policy was that elections should be conducted in atmospheres free from any type of coercive behavior that could affect employee free choice sufficiently to affect the election's outcome. See Mark Burnett Productions, 349 NLRB 706, 707 (2007). The Supreme Court has recognized that employees do not have free choice where their employer has committed unfair labor practices that have undermined the union's support and impeded the holding of a free and fair election. See NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575 (1969).
      As the Board now recognizes, there is a "substantial risk that the tainted election will compound the effects of the unfair labor practices...." Even if the results of an election are not counted under the vote-and-impound procedure, workers will still have been forced to vote in an election, regardless of how coercive the workplace environment is. Even if there is a subsequent election, the damage is already done. The employees know how they voted. Workers who voted against the union out of fear in the first election are unlikely to change their votes in subsequent rerun elections. When unfair labor practices are unremedied and workers vote in a coercive atmosphere, the "possibility of erasing the effects of past practices and of ensuring a fair election" is "slight." Allied Mechanical Services, Inc. v. NLRB, 668 F.3d 758, 767 (D.C. Cir. 2012) (citing NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575 (1969)).
      The Board has a duty to protect employees' rights to a free and fair election. For over 80 years, the Board adhered to the blocking charge policy, which enabled the Board to preserve laboratory conditions for ascertaining employee choice during Board-conducted elections. It advanced the interests of potential voters by shielding them from voting in an atmosphere tainted by coercion. If unfair labor practices remain unremedied, there can be no free and uncoerced election. It is appropriate to delay an initial election to shield employees from having to vote under coercive circumstances. Thus, the blocking charge policy ensures the freedom of choice that the Act requires.
b. The Blocking Charge Policy Focuses on Employee Rights and Does Not Favor Either Employers or Unions.
      The purpose of the National Labor Relations Act "is to protect employees in their right to self-organization, to protect employees from conduct by employers which, experience indicates, has a tendency to thwart self-organization." Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co., 70 NLRB 348, 349-50 (1946). The National Labor Relations Board declares that the NLRA "protects workplace democracy."1 The Act is meant to protect employees' free choice, and the blocking charge policy appropriately focuses on employees' rights.




1 National Labor Relations Act, NLRB (accessed Jan. 23, 2023), https://www.nlrb.gov/guidance/key-reference- materials/national-labor-relations-act.

      The current policy, by contrast, creates misimpressions to employees about free choice. By holding elections in spite of explicit unfair labor practices, the Board misrepresents that it deems that tainted election to be meritorious. The Board expends time, money, and agents - all of which the Board has in very limited quantities - to hold elections. To any worker, it would appear that this use of valuable resources is an indication that the election is valid and will actually be considered valid.
      When the Board subsequently impounds votes, this idea of legitimacy is turned on its head. While employees may be able to vote more quickly under the current policy, they may not learn the results of their voting any more quickly than they would under the blocking charge policy. It is only following a lengthy investigation, which can take 7-14 weeks or more, that the Board finally tells employees whether their decision is ultimately enforceable. This paternalistic approach damages employees' fundamental rights, as well as the Board's perceived integrity. Workers have less confidence in the Board's procedure, because it seems to them that their votes do not count. Employees want their votes to count, and that begins with being certain that their vote will count when it is cast.
      By contrast, the proposed change focuses on employees' rights. It ensures that employees can vote in environments free from coercion, which protects their right to a free and fair election. Rather than frustrating employees by forcing them to vote and then refusing to share the results of the coerced election, the blocking charge policy provides employees with the time and space to ensure that their vote is truly their individual vote and one made in an environment found to be free of coercion.
c. The Blocking Charge Policy is the Most Effective Use of Resources.
      In addition to protecting employees' rights, the Board also values timely elections. While protecting employees' rights to a free and fair election supersedes any delay an investigation might cause, Bishop v. NLRB, 502 F.2d 1024 (5th Cir. 1974), the current policy does not result in any quicker resolution of elections. It results in needless waste of time, money, and other resources. The blocking charge policy, by contrast, ensures that resources are used appropriately and deliberately. That, in turn, ensures that the Board can focus its resources on other, equally important, matters.
      The Board's longstanding policy is that elections should be conducted manually. This means that the Board must expend time, money, and agents to conduct an election. The Board has only limited quantities of all three resources, which means that the Board must carefully consider its distribution of its resources. The blocking charge policy is the most effective use of the Board's limited resources, because the Board will not have to expend its resources on meaningless elections. This, in turn, can help the Board reach its goal to reduce case processing time. This is beneficial to all involved parties.
      Over the past year, the National Labor Relations Board has experienced a major increase in its case load. This is true both at the field offices, and before the Board. In Fiscal Year 2022, 2,510 union representation petitions were filed with the NLRB's field offices, which was a 53

percent increase from the 1,638 petitions in FY 2021.2 Unfair labor practice charges also increased 19 percent, from 15,082 charges in FY 2021 to 17,988 charges in FY 2022.3 Total case intake at the field offices increased 23 percent, which is the largest single-year increase since FY 1976 and the largest percentage increase since FY 1959.4
      As one can see from the facts above, the field offices experienced an increase of almost 1,000 union representation petitions. That is an incredible increase, and one that the Board experienced while dealing with funding and staffing shortages.5 For 2022, the Board received the same Congressional appropriation of $274.2 million, which, adjusting for inflation, has decreased 25 percent since FY 2014.6 Overall Agency staffing levels dropped 39 percent since FY 2002 and staffing in Field Offices shrunk by 50 percent.7
      Even with a budget increase, the Board struggles to keep up with caseloads. The President's Budget for FY 2023 requested $319.4 million for the NLRB, a 16 percent increase, which would enable it to begin rebuilding its staffing capacity.8 Despite this, Congress only funded the NLRB at $299.224 million for 2023.9 The NLRB noted that these additional resources will be used to fund the anticipated 2023 annual pay increases without the need for furloughs, which the NLRB had recently advised appropriators would likely be necessary absent an increase in the NLRB's appropriation.10 That funding is also expected to allow for some limited hiring and critical IT system maintenance.11 This transitory increase does not provide the Board with the unfettered freedom to expend its resources where it does not need to do so.
      For all of these reasons, the Board should return to the blocking charge rule that the Board adhered to for over 80 years and rescind the vote-and-impound rule promulgated in the April 2020 Final Rule.
II. The Board Should Rescind the Modifications to the Recognition Bar Promulgated in the April 2020 Final Rule and Return to the Policy Outlined in Lamons Gasket Co.
      It would best serve the policies of the National Labor Relations Act to fully protect all new bargaining relationships and ensure that they have a reasonable opportunity to succeed. This is true regardless of how employees designated their bargaining representative. So long as a labor organization has evidence showing an uncoerced majority of employees have selected it to be their bargaining representative, it should be afforded a reasonable period to engage in meaningful


2 Election Petitions Up 53%, Board Continues to Reduce Case Processing Time in FY22, NLRB Office of Public Affairs (Oct. 6, 2022), https://www.nlrb.gov/news-outreach/news-story/election-petitions-up-53-board-continues-to- reduce-case-processing-time-in.
3 Id.
4 Id.
5 Id.
6 Id.
7 Id.
8 Id.
9 Statement on NLRB Funding in the 2023 Omnibus Bill, NLRB Office of Public Affairs (Dec. 29, 2022), https://www.nlrb.gov/news-outreach/news-story/statement-on-nlrb-funding-in-the-2023-omnibus-bill.
10 Id.
11 Id.

bargaining without having to combat rival petitions or decertification campaigns. Doing so is the best way to promote industrial peace, which is the underlying policy expressed by Congress through the Act.
a. The Act's Policy is to Encourage Collective Bargaining and Protect Employees' Right to Designate or Select a Representative of their Choosing.
      Congress has declared that it is the express policy of the United States to "encourage the practice and procedure of collective bargaining" and protect workers' "designation of representatives of their own choosing...." See 29 U.S.C. § 151. In order to effectuate this policy, the Act makes it an unfair labor practice for an employer "to refuse to bargain collectively with the representatives of his employees, subject to the provisions of section 9(a)." 29 U.S.C. § 158(a)(5). Section 9(a), in turn, provides that "[r]epresentatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes, shall be the exclusive representatives of all employees in such unit for the purposes of collective bargaining...." 29 U.S.C. § 159(a).

      Importantly, Congress declined to include any preferences, limitations, or restrictions on how a majority of employees may designate or select their representatives. In fact, in the original construction of the Wagner Act, Congress even empowered the Board to certify an exclusive bargaining representative by "tak[ing] a secret ballot of employees or utiliz[ing] any other suitable method to ascertain such representatives." 29 U.S.C. § 159(c) (1947) (emphasis added).

      Often times, this "other suitable method" included the card-check agreements that necessarily predated the Act. Even when Congress passed the Taft-Hartley Act and limited Board certification to secret ballot elections, Congress expressly rejected a proposed amendment which would "permit the Board to find a refusal-to-bargain violation only where an employer had failed to bargain with a union 'currently recognized by the employer or certified as such (through an election) under section 9.'" See NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 599 (1969) (citing H.R.Conf.Rep.No. 510, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., 41 (1947)). With that, Congress continued to recognize the right of workers to validly designate their exclusive bargaining representative through either secret ballot elections or the presentation of authorization cards to their employer.
      Not only did Congress recognize that employees could validly designate their representative through card check processes, there is evidence in the text of the Act to suggest that Congress assumed that this would be the typical process and that secret ballot elections would only be necessary when an employer refused to recognize that selection. Specifically, the Act contemplates processing a petition and conducting a secret ballot election in those instances where a "substantial number of employees ... wish to be represented for collective bargaining and that their employer declines to recognize their representative as the representative." 29 U.S.C. § 159(c)(1)(A)(i).
      The Supreme Court has confirmed the legitimacy of authorization cards as a means for employees to designate their representative. Interpreting "the Wagner and the present Act, particularly as to the use of authorization cards," the Supreme Court explained that "a union did

not have to be certified as the winner of a Board election to invoke a bargaining obligation; it could establish majority status by other means under the unfair labor practice provisions of 8(a)(5) - by showing convincing support, for instance, by a union-called strike or strike vote, or, as here, by possession of cards signed by a majority of the employees authorizing the union to represent them for collective bargaining purposes." NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 595-98 (1969). What mattered was only that there was evidence that a majority of employees had designated or selected a representation.
      Even though it was given the opportunity to do so, Congress has never suggested that secret-ballot elections were the only method - or even the preferred method - for employees to designate their representatives. Congress did make one thing clear: once a majority of employees validly designates or selects an exclusive bargaining representative, their employer has an obligation to bargain in good faith with that representative.
b. The Act is Best Served if Employees' Designated Representatives are Given a Reasonable Period to Succeed in the Process of Collective Bargaining.
      Given that an employer has an obligation to bargain in good with the designated or selected representative of its employees, and understanding that the overarching purpose of the Act is to promote industrial peace, the Act prohibits the processing of rival petitions or decertification petitions during the 12-month period following a validly conducted election. See Brooks v. NLRB, 348 U.S. 96, 103 (1954); 29 U.S.C. § 159(c)(3) ("No election shall be directed in any bargaining unit or any subdivision within which in the preceding twelve-month period, a valid election shall have been held.").
      The need for industrial peace extends beyond protecting just bargaining relationships established through a formal Board election. For more than 75 years, the Supreme Court has recognized that "a bargaining relationship, once rightfully established, must be permitted to exist and function for a reasonable period in which it can be given a fair chance to succeed." Frank Bros. Co. v. NLRB, 321 U.S. 702, 705 (1944). In reaching this conclusion, the Court acknowledged that during this time some employees "may wish to substitute for the particular union some other bargaining agent or arrangement," but ultimately concluded that such a reasonable period would not "fix a permanent bargaining relationship without regard to new situations that may develop." Id. Instead, after the designated representative was given a reasonable period for success, "the Board may, in a proper proceeding and upon a proper showing, take steps in recognition of changed situations which might make appropriate changed bargaining relationships." Id. at 706.
      Understanding that "negotiations can succeed" and "the policies of the Act can thereby be effectuated, only if the parties can normally rely on the continuing representative status of the lawfully recognized union for a reasonable period of time," the Board long-ago found that a voluntarily recognized representative should also be given a "reasonable time" to bargain and execute a contract. Keller Plastics Eastern, Inc., 157 NLRB 583, 587 (1966); Sound Contractors, 162 NLRB 364 (1966). For over 50 years, the Board worked to promote industrial peace by ensuring that all new bargaining relationships - whether established through a secret-ballot

election, Board order, settlement agreement, or voluntary recognition - had a "reasonable period" in which they could succeed.
      That continued until 2007, when the Board issued its decision in Dana Corp. and held that that voluntary recognition would not bar an election unless "(a) affected unit employees receive adequate notice of the recognition and of their opportunity to file a Board election petition within 45 days, and (b) 45 days pass from the date of notice without the filing of a validly-supported petition." 351 NLRB 434, 441 (2007). In reaching this conclusion, the Board criticized only the voluntary recognition process rather than the policy of promoting industrial peace by ensuring a "reasonable period" for new bargaining relationships to succeed. The Board argued that voluntary recognition based on card-checks was less reliable than secret-ballot elections and lacked the procedural safeguards afforded in Board elections. Id. at 438-40. Although the case was overturned just four years later, the Board published a final rule on April 1, 2020, returning to the Dana Corp. approach. See Representation - Case Procedures: Election Bars; Proof of Majority Support in Construction-Industry Collective Bargaining Relationships, 85 FR 18366 (April 1, 2020).
      In short, the Dana Corp. decision and the April 2020 Final Rule are predicated on the short- sighted and demonstrably incorrect assumption that card-checks are less reliable than secret-ballot elections. However, these concerns can already be effectively addressed through existing Board mechanisms and do not justify treating bargaining relationships arising from voluntary recognition any differently once they are formed. Accordingly, the Board should return to its long-standing policy of ensuring that all new bargaining relationships are able to enjoy a reasonable period to succeed in order to best promote the Act's purpose of promoting industrial peace.
c. The Dana Corp. Modifications Unnecessarily Undermine Employee Free Choice and Do Not Promote the Purposes of the Act.
      The Board in Dana Corp. and in the April 2020 Final Rule emphasized perceived procedural defects with card check elections. Specifically, the Board in Dana Corp. claimed that card signings are "subject to group pressure," have "been accompanied by misinformation or a lack of information about employees' representational options," and lack the safeguards against "improper electioneering tactics" that are provided by secret-ballot elections. 351 NLRB at 439. Additionally, the Board noted "employees can and do change their minds about union representation" over the course of a card signing campaign. Id. The April 2020 Final Rule echoed these same concerns, and added that "an immediate recognition bar could deny employees an initial opportunity to vote in a secret-ballot Board election for as many as 4 years-or even longer, because the reasonable period for bargaining runs from the date of the first bargaining session, which, to be lawful, must come after voluntary recognition." 85 FR at 18368. However, each of these concerns are either overstated or are addressed by existing law.
      To begin, "group pressure" is hardly unique to card-check elections. Nor is this a new argument. In Gissel, the employers argued that "without a secret ballot an employee may, in a card drive, succumb to group pressures or sign simply to get the union 'off his back' and then be unable to change his mind as he would be free to do once inside a voting booth." 395 U.S. 575, 603-04. The Court gave this argument little weight. Instead, the Court noted that "the same pressures are

likely to be equally present in an election," particularly with smaller units "where virtually every voter's sentiments can be carefully and individually canvassed." Id. at 604. Of course, no election can be free from external pressure - whether by union canvassers soliciting signatures for authorization cards or supervisors pressuring employees to oppose a unionization effort before an election. Simply put, the potential for group pressure in all elections - including both card check and secret ballot elections - does not justify denying only voluntarily recognized bargaining relationships a full and fair opportunity to succeed.
      Next, the Board already has processes in place to combat misinformation, to the extent it exists. Authorization cards themselves must be unambiguous about their purpose in order to be valid. Cumberland Shoe Corp., 144 NLRB 1268 (1963). And if a union organizer makes deliberate misrepresentations about the purpose of the card, then the card is invalid for the purpose establishing majority status. Id.; see also DTR Industries, 311 NLRB 833 (1993). More still, if a union organizer makes misrepresentations that go further and contain elements of coercion or restraint, then that would give rise to an additional, independent violation of 8(b)(1)(A). Clement Bros., 165 NLRB 698, 699, 7070 (1967) (finding that a union organizer's threat that employees would lose their jobs if they failed to sign authorization cards violated the Act). Given these safeguards afforded by the "Board's present rules for controlling card solicitation," the Supreme Court has clearly rejected the argument that "cards are too often obtained through misrepresentation and coercion." Gissel, 395 U.S. at 604. And inasmuch as the concerns articulated in Dana Corp. and the April 2020 Final Rule relate to the generalized notion that "employees may not have the same degree of information about the pros and cons of unionization that they would in a contested Board election," that again seems unfounded. The Board has previously determined that "even in the absence of an active organizing campaign, employers in nonunionized workplaces may and often do communicate their general views about unionization to both new hires and existing employees." See Representation - Case Procedures, 76 Fed. Reg. 80138, 80153 (2011). In fact, "the Board experience suggests that other employers do discuss unionization with their employees beforehand, often as soon as they are hired." Id. (suggesting that "some employers distribute employee handbooks or show orientation videos to all new employees that express the employer's view on union or its desire that employees remain unrepresented."). With this, the Board already concluded that "as a general matter, employers are able to communicate their message quickly and effectively." Id. at 80154.
      Building on those points, existing Board law imposes meaningful consequences when there is evidence of coercion or other "improper electioneering tactics." It is axiomatic that a union may not demand, and an employer cannot grant, recognition if the union lacks legitimate, uncoerced majority support. See, e.g., International Ladies' Garment Workers Union v. NLRB, 366 U.S. 731 (1961); Dairyland USA Corp., 347 NLRB 310, 313-314 (2006). If employees believe that their employer improperly granted recognition to a union that does not represent an uncoerced majority, then they can file unfair labor practice charges under 8(b)(1)(A) and 8(a)(2). If they are correct, then the standard remedy would be an order directing the employer to cease and desist from recognizing and bargaining with the union. See Crest Containers Corp., 223 NLRB 739, 742 (1976). Likewise, the Act also already provides a process for employers to verify a union's claim that it represents an uncoerced majority of employees. If an employer has cause to question a

union's assertion of majority support, then the employer can file a petition under Section 9(c)(1)(B). It is not obligated to voluntarily recognize a union if it harbors doubts about whether it truly represents an uncoerced majority. There are ample safeguards for both employees and employers to ensure that a union truly represents an uncoerced majority and to counteract any potential unlawful electioneering tactics.
      Lastly, while it may be true that "employees can and do change their minds about union representation," a full recognition bar would not unduly infringe upon employee free choice. Some employees may invariably change their opinions about the unionization effort (both for and against) during campaigns. But as the Supreme Court has recognized, protecting new bargaining relationships for a reasonable period does not "fix a permanent bargaining relationship." Frank Bros. Co., 321 U.S. at 705. Instead, it simply gives the new bargaining relationship an opportunity to succeed. Then, after that time has elapsed, and "upon a proper proceeding and upon a proper showing," the Board can take into consideration changed circumstances with employees' support for the union. Id. at 706. Additionally, employees are afforded all of the protections and safeguards described above. If employees elect to sign an unambiguous authorization card, without any coercion or deliberate misrepresentation, then it is no more harmful to employee free choice for the Board to grant a recognition bar for a reasonable period than it is to grant a certification bar for a similar period.
      For all of these reasons, the Board should rescind the modifications to the recognition bar first articulated in Dana Corp. and later promulgated in the April 2020 Final Rule. In its place, the Board should return to the policy outlined in Lamons Gasket Co., 357 NLRB 934 (2011). The Board already has adequate existing mechanisms in place to protect employee free choice, even in the context of card check campaigns. Therefore, the Act's primary purpose of ensuring industrial peace is best served if all new bargaining relationships are assured a reasonable period in which they can succeed.
Conclusion
For the above-stated reasons, the Board should proceed with the proposed rule.

Respectfully submitted,
            /s/ David Jury David Jury, General Counsel

Zachary Hebert, Assistant General Counsel

Cassandra Maas, Assistant General Counsel United Steelworkers International
60 Boulevard of the Allies, Room 807
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
(412) 562-2549
  djury@usw.org zhebert@usw.org cmaas@usw.org


