

Febr uary 22, 2011

Mr. Lester A. Heltzer Executive Secretary
National Labor Relations Board 1099 14th Street, NW Washington, DC 20570

Re: RIN 3142-AA07 - Proposed Rules Governing Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act

These comments are submitted for the record to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB or Board) on behalf of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) in response to the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) for Proposed Rules Governing Notif ication of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act published in the December 22, 2010, edition of the Federal Register.

NFIB is the nation's leading small business advocacy association, representing members in Washington, D.C., and all 50 state capita ls. Founded in 1943 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, NFIB's mission is to promote and protect the right of its members to own, operate, and grow their businesses. NFIB represents about 350,000 independent business owners who are located throughout the United States. Virtually every member of NFIB stands to be affected by this rulemaking.

This NPRM proposes a regulation requiring employers subject to the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) to post a notice informing their employees of their rights as employees under the NLRA. The NLRB believes that many employees protected by the NLRA are unaware of their rights under the statute. The proposed rule establishes the size, form, and content of the notice, and sets forth provisions regarding sanctions and remedies that may be imposed if an employer fails to comply with its obligations under the rule.

NFIB believes that the NLRB should withdraw this proposal because the Board lacks statutory authority to require such a posting and to expand the penalty provisions in the manner in which is described in the NPRM - the latter of which will disproportionately burden small businesses.
These concerns are discussed in greater detail below.

NFIB believes that the Board does not have authority under the NLRA to require up to six million private-sector businesses to post a notice detailing employees' rights. The proposal would affect millions of private sector employers that are not under suspicion of committing an unfair labor practice to display the posting. Section 6 of the NLRA - which the Board cites as its authority for this rule - only grants the NLRB the ability to administer the act when a representation petition or unfair labor practice charge is filed.

NFIB Comments on NLRB Poster NPRM
RIN 3142-AA07	February 22, 2011

According to the Board's own statistics, only 23,381 unfair labor charges and 3,402 representation petitions were filed with the board in 2010. 1 Together, these situations account for less than a fraction of 1 percent of private sector employers. The Board is clearly beyond the scope of its authority with its proposal to regulate the more than 99 percent of employers not implicated in these filings or charges.

In addition, the Board's proposal admits that the NLRA is "almost unique among federal labor laws in not including an express statutory provision requiring employers routinely to post notices at their workplaces informing employees of their statutory rights."2 Unlike in other major acts, Congress specifically avoided granting the Board the authority to require a notice posting when it passed the NLRA.

In the absence of an election petition or a finding of an unfair labor practice, the Board lacks the authority to require employers to post any notice, and certainly not a notice that is far more detailed and pointed than the notices required when the Board's jurisdiction is properly invoked.

Finally, the proposed rules would impose significant penalties on employers who fail to post this notice, including a finding that a failure to post the notice will constitute an independent unfair labor practice and result in an indefinite expansion of the statute of limitations for filing any other unfair labor practice charge. The Board does not have authority to impose these obligations and penalties against an employer when there has been no finding - or even an allegation - of an unfair labor practice. Small businesses are particularly vulnerable to accidental violations because the regulatory compliance burden most often falls on the small business owner - and because small businesses do not have dedicated compliance staff

NFIB hopes that the NLRB will withdraw this proposed rulemaking. The proposal is clearly beyond the scope of the statutory authority granted by the NLRA. The Board is attempting to regulate millions of businesses unnecessarily, and expose these businesses to potential fines and penalties in an indefinite manner.

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on this NPRM. Should the NLRB require additional information, please contact NFIB's manager of regulatory policy, Daniel Bosch, at 202-314-2052.

Sincerely,

Susan Eckerly
Senior Vice President Federal Public Policy






1 http://www.nlrb.gov/shared_files/GC%20Memo/2011/GC%2011- 03%20Summary%20of%20Operations%20FY%2010.pdf
2 75 Fed. Reg. 80415

2
