February 21, 2011

Via Electronic Filing
Mr. Lest Heltzer
Executive Secretary
National Labor Relations Board
1099 14th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20570

Mr. Heltzer:

      This letter is in response to the notice of proposed rule making (NPRM) and request for comments published on December 22, 2010 by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB or Board). The Service Employees International Union (SEIU), a labor union representing 2.2 million members and the largest healthcare and property service union in the United States, offers the following comments in support of the Board's proposed rule requiring employers to post notices informing employees of their rights under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) and the proposed regulatory procedures to enforce such a rule, if adopted. 
The Proposed Notice of Employee Rights is Necessary Because Most Workers are Unaware of Their Rights Under the Act
      
      The SEIU agrees with the Board's assessment that workers are unaware of their rights under the NLRA. NPRM pg. 1, 5; see also Charles Morris, NLRB Protection in the Nonunion Workplace: A Glimpse at a General Theory of Section 7 Conduct, 137 U. PA. L. REV. 1673, 1675-1676 (1989); Tom Juravich, Anti-Union or Unaware? Work and Labor as Understood by High School Students, LAV. STUD. J. , 16, 25 (Fall 1991). This has generally been the experience of the SEIU with respect to unorganized workers, who have not had the benefit of being educated on their rights by a bargaining representative. Further, employees that have no contact with unions or organizing campaigns at work or in their communities whatsoever may have no idea that the NLRA applies to them, even in the absence of a union, or of the existence of a federal agency responsible for the enforcement of their rights under the Act. 
      Along with the more familiar protections of the Act to form, join, decertify, or assist a labor organization and to bargain collectively, Section 7 guarantees also include the right to engage in concerted activity for mutual aid and protection, regardless of whether or not such conduct involves a labor organization. This is perhaps the least understood protection of the Act. Nonunion employees have the right to come together and speak out about working conditions, defend their co-workers, have the right to walk out of the job in order to attempt to change or protest the actions of their employer, or to discuss their wage rate and other benefits with fellow employees. But most workers, and many employers, are wholly unaware that absent representation by a union, the Act still provides protections for concerned activity by employees. 
      In NLRB v. Washington Aluminum, 370 U.S. 9 (1962), the Supreme Court reversed a Fourth Circuit decision and ruled that seven, unorganized workers, who were terminated for leaving the job after complaining about the extremely cold temperatures at their worksite, had engaged in protected activity under the Act and were entitled to reinstatement. These striking workers were unorganized. They did not have the benefit of a bargaining representative and possessed no established procedure, contractual or otherwise, to bring forth complaints or bring about changes in their working conditions. Because these workers were unrepresented, the Court reasoned that the men "had to speak for themselves as best could" and under the circumstances, the workers "took the most direct course to let the company know that they wanted a warmer place in which to work." Id at 14-15.1 This activity was thereby protected under the NLRA and the workers could not be terminated for it.
      As the percentage of unionized private sector workers in the United States has substantially decreased, and acts of workers exercising their Section 7 rights to engage in concerted activity, including the right to strike, have become more rare, the ability of workers to learn about their rights under the NLRA has diminished. See generally, Michael Goldfield, The Decline of Organized Labor in the United States (1987); Joel Rogers, In the Shadow of the Law: Institutional Aspects of Postwar U.S. Union Decline, in Labor Law in America: Historical and Critical Essays 283 (Christopher Tomlins & Andrew King eds., 1992). As most workers today lack a knowledge of or a connection to organized labor, they also lack access to what has previously been the major source of information and education about the NLRA. By requiring employers to post a notice informing employees of their rights under the NLRA, the NLRB becomes the major source of information about the statute Congress entrusted the Board to enforce. 
      The proposed posting requirement would not only educate workers, union and nonunion, about their rights under the Act, but will likely also have the effect of educating the less sophisticated employer about the NLRA. An employer's lack of familiarity with labor laws is no excuse for violating such laws. See In re Air Disaster Lockerbie Scotland on Dec. 21, 1988, 37 F.3d 804, 818 (2d Cir. 1994); Clinton Packing Co., 191 NLRB 879, 884 (1971). If employers, especially smaller employers in nonunionized settings, are made aware of the rights and responsibilities that exist under the NLRA, or the fact that the Act exists at all and applies to them, they could voluntarily alter their behavior and policies to comply with the Act and not remain ignorant of possible violations that could lead to possible unfair labor practices and unnecessary litigation.
      For example, though the NLRA has been in effect for over 75 years, it is still relatively common that employers have handbooks that are per se violations of the Act. Lutheran Heritage Village-Livonia, 343 NLRB 646 (1984)(rule explicitly prohibiting employees from discussion wages); Longs Drug Stores, 347 NLRB 500 (2006); Double Eagle Hotel & Casino, 341 NLRB 112, 114 (2004) (finding a violation of the Act by maintenance of the rule stating: "You are not, under any circumstances permitted to communicate any confidential or sensitive information concerning the Company or any if its employees to any nonemployee without approval."); Iris USA, Inc., 336 NLRB 1013 (2001) (same result regarding a rule requiring employees to keep information about other employees strictly confidential). If more employers were simply made aware that such provisions violated the Act, they would have to opportunity to alter their conduct accordingly before becoming engaged in what can become protracted and costly litigation.
The Proposed Notice is Necessary to Carry Out the Provisions of the Act 
	The Board is clearly empowered by Section 6 of the NLRA to adopt a regulation requiring employers to post notices informing employees of their rights under the Act. Under 29 U.S.C. §156, Section 6 of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), Congress granted the Board broad authority to:
[F]rom time to time to make, amend, and rescind, in the matter prescribed by the Administrative Procedures Act, such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act.

      This grant of power to the Board is "unquestionably" broad enough to authorize any rules necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act "unless limited by some other provision of the Act." American Hospital Assoc. v. NLRB, 499 U.S. 606, 610 (1991). In American Hospital Association, the Supreme Court upheld the Board's ability to adopt a rule under Section 6 of the Act establishing eight (8) appropriate bargaining units for acute care hospitals despite the fact that section 9(b) required the Board to determine an appropriate bargaining unit "in each case." In rejecting the argument that the Board had no statutory authority to issue the challenged regulation, the Court in that case found that the "ordinary meaning of statutory language"  would have required Congress, if it had intended to limit the Board's "broad rulemaking authority granted under section 6" in a particular area, to provide "language expressly describing an exception." Id. at 613. In that case, nothing in Section 6 limited the Board's authority to adopt a general rule regarding the appropriateness of certain bargaining units. Likewise, nothing in Section 6 or any other subsection of the Act restricts the Board's ability to adopt a notice regulation at issue in this rule making. 
      The authority of the Board to issue notice regulations is further supported by the legislative history of the Act. The rulemaking authority now under Section 6 of the NLRA was originally drafted as Section 209 of the "Labor Disputes Act" of 1934, and gave "the Board... such authority from time to time to make, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the act."  S. 2926, 73d Congress (1934), reprinted in 1 NLRB, Legislative History of the National Labor Relations Act, 1935, 1 at 13 (1949).  Section 2 of the Bill stated that: 
[i]nadequate recognition of the right of employees to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing has...  obstruct[ed] commerce and imperil[ed] the general welfare.  It is the policy of Congress... to provide for the general welfare, by removing the obstacles which prevent the organization of labor for the purpose of cooperative action... [and] by encouraging the equalization of bargaining power of employers and employees.  Id. at 1.
      
      The rulemaking provision of the Bill by its terms thus included the power to issue rules for "removing of obstacles" to commerce caused by the "inadequate recognition of the right[s] of employees" under the Bill.  
      The Bill that would later pass the 74th Congress as the NLRA included a rulemaking provision that was, according to the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, "substantially the same" as the rulemaking provision from the previous year's Bill.  Staff of S. Comm. on Education and Labor, 74th Cong., Comparison of S. 2926 (73d Congress) and S. 1958 (74th Congress) (Comm. Print 1935), reprinted in 1 NLRB, Legislative History of the National Labor Relations Act, 1935, 1319 at 1321, 1349-50 (1949) ("Section 6(a) is substantially the same as section 7 of last year's bill".)  The Senate Committee Report indicated: 
the two drafts [of the rulemaking provision] are identical, except that S. 1958 omits the limitation that the rules by [sic] 'reasonable.'  In no case do the rules have the force of law in the sense that criminal penalties or fines accrue for their violation, and it seems sufficient that the rules prescribed must be 'necessary to carry out the provisions' of the act. The limitation of the committee draft can only result in confusion in the interpretation of the term 'reasonable,' without really making any change of substance. Id. 

      The House Committee on Labor Report declared of Section 6, "This is a common provision authorizing the Board to make, amend, and rescind such rules as may be found necessary to implement and carry out the provisions of the bill."  H. Rep. No. 74-969 at 13 (1935), reprinted in 1 NLRB, Legislative History of the National Labor Relations Act, 1935, 2910 at 2923 (1949).  Thus, the Committee reports agree that the rulemaking authority of the Board was as broad as necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act, including the purposes articulated in Section 1.
	Section 1 of the NLRA, as passed, sets forth the following findings and declaration of policy: 

It is declared to be the policy of the United States to eliminate the causes of certain substantial obstructions to the free flow of commerce and to mitigate and eliminate these obstructions when they have occurred by encouraging the practice and procedure of collective bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection.  

In the passage of the NLRA, Congress explicitly recognized that denying employees the right to organize leads to industrial strife and unrest, which in turn burdens the safe and efficient operation of the "instrumentalities of commerce." And that the inequality of bargaining power between employees "who do not possess full freedom of association or actual liberty of contract..." has the tendency to depress "wage rates and working conditions." 29 U.S.C. §151, §1 of the NLRA; see also American Manufacturing, 499 U.S. at 682-683.
      Section 1 makes clear that purpose of the Act was to attempt to eliminate the interference with commerce by effectuating collective bargaining and restoring "equality of bargaining power between employers and employees." Id. If an employee is unaware of his or her rights under the Act, it is impossible for a worker to exercise those rights.  Therefore, the promulgation of a regulation requiring the posting of a notice which informs workers of their rights under the Act is both appropriate and necessary to further the policies and to carry out the purposes of the Act.
The NLRB Has the Statutory Authority to Issue the Proposed Regulation to Carry Out the Provisions of the Act

      The SEIU respectfully disagrees with comments of dissenting Member Brian Hayes regarding what he believes is a lack of authority on the part of the Board to issue notice regulations due in part to the absence of express language in the Act. NPRM p. 22. Though many statutes like the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 expressly require by statute the posting of individual rights notices, at least one major statute does not. The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) requires that a notice of employee rights be posted by agency rule, not by statute, similar to that currently proposed in the instant rule making. The FLSA notice regulation at 29 CFR §516.4 requires:
Every employer employing any employees subject to the Act's minimum wage provisions shall post and keep posted a notice explaining the Act, as prescribed by the Wage and Hour Division, in conspicuous places in every establishment where such employees are employed so as to permit them to observe readily a copy.

      The enabling statute for this regulation, 29 U.S.C §211, refers only to recordkeeping requirements and at subsection (c) requires:
Every employer subject to any provision of this Act or of any order issued under this Act shall make, keep, and preserve such records of the persons employed by him and of the wages, hours, and other conditions and practices of employment maintained by him, and shall preserve such records for such periods of time, and shall make such reports therefrom to the Administrator [Secretary] as he shall prescribe by regulation or order as necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of the provisions of this Act or the regulations or orders thereunder.

(emphasis added)

      Section 6 of the NLRA is much more broadly drafted than 29 U.S.C. §211 and is not conditioned or possibly limited to the enforcement of one narrow provision of the Act. The section of the enabling statute, which is the stated basis of the DOL's FLSA notice, never mentions notice postings informing employees of their substantive rights under the law but generally refers only to employer's the recordkeeping obligations of the FLSA. However, the absence of express language in the FLSA has apparently not been an indicator of lack of authority of the Department of Labor (DOL) in adopting a notice regulation informing employees of their rights. There was no mention of any concerns about the authority of the DOL to implement notice regulations absent specific statutory authority or to impose the posting requirement on all employers in the final rulemaking summary published with the adoption of the FLSA notice requirement in 1987. 52 F.R. 24894.  Nor was there any issue when the predecessor to Section 516.4, a similar but not identical notice requirement found in former Section 516.18, was adopted by the DOL in 1949. 14 F.R. 7516. Further, the SEIU is unaware of any case law in the over sixty years (60) years a FLSA notice requirement has been in effect challenging the authority of the DOL to promulgate or enforce such a requirement. 
      Finally, the Board previously adopted notice requirements under the authority granted by Congress in Section 6, requiring employers to post the Board's official Notice of Election three (3) days prior to an election taking place. See 29 CFR §103.20. There is not case law challenging the authority of the Board in the adoption 29 CFR §103.20 and the notice requirement has been in place since 1987.
The Board Has the Authority to Enforce the Requirement to Post Notices of Employee Rights

      Though the Board unquestionably has the power to adopt a notice regulation under Section 6 of the Act, and any such challenge to its authority should fail, its ability to enforce its rule may also be subject to challenge.  Such challenges to the Board's effective enforcement of the requirement to post notices of employee rights must fail as well.  As with the FLSA and consistent with the statutory history of Section 6 of the NLRA, no fine, criminal or civil penalty would be attached to the violation of any notice posting rule proposed by the Board. See 29 C.F.R. §516.4; S. 1958 (74th Congress) (Comm. Print 1935), reprinted in 1 NLRB, Legislative History of the National Labor Relations Act, 1935, 1319 at 1321, 1349-50 (1949) . SEIU agrees with the Board's initial assessment at NPRM, page 17 that voluntary compliance with the notice posting requirement would likely be ineffective, especially considering the Board's previous experience with voluntary postings when an election petition is filed. See the NLRB Casehandling Manual, Part Two-Representation Proceedings, Section 11008.5, which can be found at: http://www.nlrb.gov/sites/default/files/documents/44/chm2.pdf  (when election petition is filed, the NLRB sends and request employer's to post a notice of employee rights). Finding an unfair labor practice under section 8(a)(1) of the Act, tolling the six-month statute of limitations for the filing of unfair labor practices (ULPs), and citing the failure to post as evidence of discriminatory motive in ULP cases are well within the authority of the Board and each a better alternative than relying on voluntary compliance alone for enforcement of the notice regulation. 
      Under the proposed regulations at 29 CFR §§104.210 and 104.211, a person, other than an NLRB employee, may file an unfair labor practice charge that will cause the agency to investigate whether an employer has failed to post the required notice informing workers of their rights under the Act. The Board has been granted the authority under Section 10 of the Act to investigate and issue complaints on ULPs. 29 U.S.C. §160, Section 10 of the NLRA.  Section 8(a)(1) of the NLRA prohibits an employer from interfering, coercing or restraining employees in the exercise of their Section 7 rights. 
      A violation of Section 8(a)(1) of the NLRA does not required a showing of unlawful discriminatory intent or union animus on the part of the employer, but merely requires a determination that the employer's conduct would reasonably tend to interfere with the exercise of an employee's Section 7 rights.  American Freightways Co., 124 NLRB 146 (1959); Yoshi's Japanese Res., 330 NLRB 1339 (2000); see also Textile Workers v. Darlington, 380 U.S. 263 (1965). In an analogous situation, the DOL has determined, in a regulation concerning the employee rights notice positing under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) 29 U.S.C. §2601 et seq., that the failure to post the required notice "may constitute an interference with, restraint, or denial of the exercise of an employee's FMLA rights." 29 CFR §825.300(e); enabling statute at 29 U.S.C. 2619(a). 
       The Board is well within its authority to determine that the failure of the employer to notify employees of their rights under the NLRA when so required by regulation would tend to interfere with or restrain workers in the exercise of Section 7 rights, regardless of the intent of the employer in failing to post, thereby violating Section 8(a)(1). Moreover, the Board is required to order an employer to "cease and desist" from conduct that constitutes an unfair labor practice under Section 8 and to "take such affirmative action... as will effectuate the policies of the Act." See 29 U.S.C. §160(c). The Board remedies Section 8(a)(1) through the posting, though Section 10(c) of the Act does not expressly authorize the Board to do so. 
      Tolling the six-month statute of limitations is also a viable enforcement alternative to simple voluntary compliance with the notice requirement. In many jurisdictions, this has a recognized method of enforcement of the FLSA notice regulations, which also has no fines or civil penalties attached to failing to post2. See Kamens v. Summit Stainless, Inc., 586 F. Supp. 324 (E.D. Pa. 1984) (failure to post FLSA notice tolls the statute of limitations, relying on Bonham v. Dresser Industries, Inc., 569 F.2d 187 (3d Cir. 1978) which had a similar holding under the ADEA); Clark v. Resistoflex Co., 854 F.2d 762, 767 (5th Cir. 1988) (equitable tolling may be triggered by the refusal of the employer to post the required notice, but tolling only occurs until employee has secured counsel or otherwise ascertained his or her rights under the statute); Patraker v. Council on Environment of New York City, 2003 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20519 (S.D.N.Y 2003) (failure to post may have tolled the statute save for the retention of an attorney); Veerkamp v. U.S. Security Assoc., Inc., 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 71368 (S.D. Ind. 2006) (failure to prove equitable tolling when proof was provided that FLSA notices were in both the employee's manual and posted at company headquarters); Cisneros v. Jinny Beauty Supply Co. Inc., 2004 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 2094 (N.D. Ill. 2004) (failure to post tolls that statute of limitations until an employee acquires a general awareness of his rights); see also Henchy v. City of Absecon, 148 F. Supp.2d 435 (D.N.J. 2001). 
      The SEIU joins the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) in supporting an additional enforcement mechanism for noncompliance and believes that failure of an employer to post the required notice during the "critical period" preceding an election should be grounds for setting aside an election after the filing of objections. During the "critical period," the time between an election petition being filed with the Board and date of the election, the Board attempts to create "an atmosphere in which employees are free from pressure, coercion and undue influence from either the employer or the union." Comcast Cablevision-Taylor v. NLRB, 232 F.3d 490, 494 (6th Cir. 2000); see also Ideal Electric & Mfg. Co., 134 NLRB 1275 (1961) (defining the critical period).  Ensuring these "laboratory conditions" is necessary to gauge the employees' choice of representative or no representative free from undue influence. 
      Requiring an employer to post a notice of employee rights under the Act to satisfy "laboratory conditions" during the "critical period" produces a more informed electorate, which would establish further safeguards to "ensure the fair and free choice of bargaining representative." See NLRB v. Wyman-Gordon Co., 394 U.S. 759, 767 (1969); see also NLRB v. A.J. Tower Co., 329 U.S. 324 (1946)(wide discretion granted to the Board by Congress to insure fair and free choice in elections).

Comments Regarding the Wording of the Proposed Notice
      
	The SEIU would also like to offer a few comments regarding the wording of the proposed notice. The proposed notice provides that it is illegal for an employer to:
Prohibit you from soliciting for a union during non-work time, such as before or after work or during break times;

      We believe that instead of focusing on the rules regarding "solicitation," it would engender far less confusion for both employers and employees if the Board instead focused on the law relating to talking about the union.  We would suggest replacing the language of the proposed notice cited above with the following:
Prohibit you from talking about a union while you work if you are free to discuss other subjects unrelated to work.

      This statement of the law is well-established.  See, e.g., Jensen Enterprises, Inc., 339 NLRB 877, 878 (2003); Teksid Aluminum Foundry, Inc., 311 NLRB 711, 713 (1993).  Moreover, workers and employers obviously understand what "talking" means.  But, the Board's own experience indicates that there is substantial confusion about the meaning of the term "solicitation."  There are numerous reported cases where employers have improperly accused workers of "soliciting," based on a misunderstanding of that term.  See, e.g., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 340 NLRB 637 (2003); W.W. Grainger, Inc., 229 NLRB 161 (1977).  While the Board has explained the definition of "solicitation" in its decisions, the Board has also recognized that "rank-and-file workers do not generally carry lawbooks to work...."  Ingram Book Co., 315 NLRB 515, 516, n. 2 (1994).
      By focusing on "solicitation" rather than "talking," the notice gives both workers and employers a misimpression about the scope of employee rights to discuss the union while they work.  By modifying the notice to focus on the readily understood term "talking," the Board will make its notice much more understandable and avoid any unnecessary confusion.
Conclusion
      For all the foregoing reasons, the SEIU supports the NLRB's proposed rule to require employers to notify employees of their NLRA right through the posting of a notice. 
      
      						Respectfully submitted,
      						/s/ Michael J. Hunter			
Of Counsel:						Michael J. Hunter
Andrew Strom						Cathrine J. Harshman
SEIU Local 32BJ					Hunter, Carnahan, Shoub, Byard & Harshman
101 Avenue of the Americas				3360 Tremont Rd., Suite 230
New York, NY 10012					Columbus, OH 43221
212-388-2128						614-442-5626
						
      Judith A. Scott
      						General Counsel
      						John J. Sullivan
      						Associate General Counsel
      						Service Employees International Union
      						1800 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.
      						Washington, D.C.  20036
      						202-730-7465
      
Counsel for the Service Employees International Union (SEIU)

1 Clearly these unrepresented employees must have known that they had some rights, or at least they knew that they could go to the NLRB for assistance, or else we would have never know of their strike or their employer's unlawful response to their concerted action.  But in January, 1959, when their strike occurred,  there were far more union members and many more strikes than there are today.  For example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that in 1958 there were 332 major strikes, involving 1,587,000 workers with a total of 17,900,000 days lost from work.  In contrast, in 2010 there were only 5 major strikes, involving 13,000 workers and 124,000 days lost from work. (BLS " Work Stoppages Involving 1,000 Or More Workers 1947-2010", www.bls.gov/news.release/wkstp.t01.htm)   As a result, workers today have much less contact with union members or lawful strike activity and as a result are less likely to learn about their rights under the Act or of the existence of the NLRB.    
2 It bears emphasis that the statute of limitations for making a claim under the FLSA is far longer than the Act's six month statute making an equitable tolling remedy even more appropriate under the NLRA.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

14


