



LEGAL DEPARTMENT
Edward P. Wendel
General Counsel

Via Electronic Filing

February 22, 2011


Mr. Lester Heltzer Executive Secretary,
National Labor Relations Board 1099 14th Street, NW Washington, DC 20570

Dear Mr. Heltzer:

      In response to the National Labor Relations Board's (NLRB's or Board's) notice of proposed rulemaking (NPR) and request for comments published on December 22, 2010, the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW), a labor organization with approximately 1.3 million members and 480 affiliates throughout North America, hereby submits its comments in support of the NLRB's Proposed Rules Governing Notification of Employee Rights under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA).

      The UFCW agrees with the NLRB and the commentators cited in the NPR, at p. 5, that many employees covered by the NLRA are unaware of their rights under the statute, and that a rule requiring that employees be notified of their NLRA rights would help implement the Act's fundamental policy of "encouraging the practice and procedure of collective bargaining and ... protecting the exercise by workers of full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing, for the purpose of negotiating the terms and conditions of their employment or other mutual aid or protection." 29 U.S.C. §151. Although labor unions can effectively assist workers in learning of and exercising their statutory rights, the vast majority of American private sector employees work in non-union workplaces where they lack access to a union representative. Clearly, employees cannot properly exercise their NLRA rights to self-organization and freedom of association if they are uninformed of their rights. The Board's proposed notice rule, "by encouraging an informed electorate," would help "ensure the fair and free choice of bargaining representatives." NLRB v. Wyman-Gordon Co., 394 U.S. 759, 767 (1969). "Congress has entrusted the Board with a wide degree of discretion in establishing the procedure and safeguards necessary to insure" such fair and free choice. NLRB v. A. J Tower Co., 329 U.S. 324, 330 (1946) (citations omitted).

      As noted in the NPR (at pp. 6-7), most other major Federal labor statutes include express statutory provisions requiring employers to routinely post notices in their workplaces informing employees of their statutory rights. However, at least one other major Federal labor law, the Fair



Joseph T. Hansen, International President
Anthony M. Perrone, International Secretary-Treasurer
s-0,,,


United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, CLC 1775 K Street, NW • Washington DC 20006-1598
Office (202) 223-3111 • Fax (202) 728-1803 • www.ufcw.org


Labor Standards Act (FLSA), 29 U.S.C. §201 et seq. - which, like the NLRA, was an important part of President Roosevelt's New Deal agenda enacted in the 1930s - does not contain an express statutory employee notification provision. Rather, the requirement that employers notify employees of their FLSA rights is found in 29 C.F.R. §516.4, a rule promulgated by the United States Department of Labor (DOL) under the authority of 29 U.S.C. §211. Despite the absence in 29 U.S.C. §211 or any other provision of the FLSA of explicit language authorizing the DOL to require covered employers to notify workers of their FLSA rights, the DOL's authority to adopt 29 C.F.R. §516.4 under 29 U.S.C. §211 has never been successfully challenged.

      More so than 29 U.S.C. §211, §6 of the NLRA, 29 U.S.C. §156, is a very broad congressional grant of rulemaking authority to the administrative agency charged with administering and enforcing the NLRA. Section 6 of the NLRA provides:

The Board shall have authority from time to time to make, amend, and rescind, in the manner prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act, such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act. Id.

The UFCW agrees with the NLRB that NLRA §6 authorizes the Board to adopt the proposed rule, NPR, p. 10, and categorically rejects dissenting Board Member Hayes's view that "the language of Section 6 of the Act is [not] sufficient statutory authority for imposing such a notice requirement and sanctions for noncompliance." NPR, p. 22.

      Relying on NLRA §6 as authority, in 1987 - during President Reagan's administration - the NLRB adopted a rule requiring employers to post the agency's election notice at least three full working days prior to an election, and making the failure to do so per se grounds for setting aside the election upon the filing of proper and timely objections.  This rule is codified in 29
C.F.R. §103.20. Like the proposed rule in question (see NPR, pp. 9, 22-26), the NLRB's election notice rule imposes a minimal burden on employers. The UFCW doesn't recall anyone questioning the NLRB's authority to adopt 29 C.F.R. §l 03.20, and there are no court decisions challenging that rule.

      Supreme Court precedent supports the view that NLRA §6 authorizes the NLRB to adopt the proposed notice rule. In American Hospital Assn. v. NLRB, 499 U.S. 606 (1991), the Court unanimously rejected a challenge to the Board's rule establishing eight bargaining units for acute care hospitals. In the Court's view, NLRA §6's grant of rulemaking authority to the Board "was unquestionably sufficient to authorize the rule at issue in this case unless limited by some other provision of the Act." Id. at 609-10. The Court rejected the employers' contention that the phrase "in each case" in NLRA §9(6), 29 U.S.C. §159(6), provided such a limitation, in part because the rule's "extraordinary circumstances" exception permits adjudication in individual cases but also due to "the structure and policy of the NLRA":

As a matter of statutory drafting, if Congress had intended to curtail in a particular area the broad rulemaking authority granted in §6, we would have expected it to do so in language expressly describing an exception from that section or at least referring specifically to the section. And, in regard to the Act's underlying


policy, the goal of facilitating the organization and recognition of unions is certainly served by [the] rule[]. ... 499 U.S. at 613.

      Member Hayes contends that "Section 10 of the Act indicates ... that the Board clearly lacks the authority to order affirmative notice-posting action in the absence of an unfair labor practice charge filed by an outside party." NPR, p. 22. For the following reasons, this contention is as puzzling as it is unpersuasive.

      First, NLRA §10 contains no "language expressly describing an exception from [§6] or at least refen-ing specifically to that section" as contemplated by American Hospital Assn. 499 U.S. at 613. Section 10(c) directs the Board, upon finding the commission of any unfair labor practice, to order the respondent "to cease and desist from such unfair labor practice, and to take such affirmative action ... as will effectuate the policies of this Act. ... 29 U.S.C. §160(c). However, NLRA §10 includes no explicit statutory authorization that the Board order the respondent to post any notice to remedy an unfair labor practice, much less any indication that Congress intended to preclude the Board from adopting rules in a notice-and-comment rulemaking proceeding requiring employers to post notices informing workers of their statutory rights and providing appropriate sanctions for noncompliance.

      Moreover, given §6's broad grant of rulemaking authority to the Board, Member Hayes's reliance on the lack of express language in the NLRA requiring "the posting of individual rights notices" such as is found in statutes like Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act is misplaced. NPR at p. 22. Such reliance ignores the fact that the power of the NLRB and other administrative agencies to administer statutes within their jurisdiction to administer "necessarily requires the formulation of policy and the making of rules to fill any gap left, implicitly or explicitly, by Congress." Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 843 (1984). Accord, National Cable & Telecommunications Assn. v. Brand X Internet Services, 545 U.S. 967, 980 (2005). And, in this regard, "an agency to which Congress has delegated policymaking responsibilities may, within the limits of that delegation, properly rely upon the incumbent administration's views of wise policy to inform its judgments." Chevron, 467 U.S. at 865. Whatever his own policy views may be, Member Hayes's contention that NLRA §6 provides insufficient authority for the proposed rule does not withstand scrutiny.

      In addition, Member Hayes erroneously suggests that the proposed notice rule authorizes the Board to "order affirmative notice-posting action" absent a charge being filed by an "outside party."  The proposed rule does no such thing. Rather, proposed 29 C.F.R. §§ 104.210 and
104.211 provide that the filing of an unfair labor practice charge by any person other than an NLRB employee is the triggering event that will cause the agency to investigate whether an employer has failed to post the required notice informing workers of their NLRA rights. NPR, p.
41. Furthermore, 29 C.F.R. §104.212 makes clear that a complaint will rarely if ever issue if, after being contacted by the Regional Office upon the filing of a charge, the charged employer promptly posts the required notice.1 The UFCW has no quarrel with the Board's view that

1 Accord, NPR, p. 18 ("The Board expects that most employers that fail to post the required notices will do so simply because they are unaware of the rule, and that when it is called to their attention, they will comply without the need for formal administrative action or litigation. When that is not the case, the Board's customary procedures for investigating and adjudicating alleged unfair labor practices may be invoked" (citations and footnote omitted)).


formal proceedings are unnecessary where a charged employer, upon learning of its legal responsibility to post the notice, promptly fulfills that responsibility.

      On the other hand, an employer who knowingly continues to fail to post the notice after being informed of the notice-posting requirement clearly would interfere with its employees' exercise of their §7 rights, in violation ofNLRA §8(a)(l).

      The UFCW agrees with the NLRB's proposal to adopt, as the text of the notice, the language of the DOL's final rule requiring federal government contractors to post notices of employees' NLRA rights. The union believes that the DOL's notice achieves an appropriate balance between providing sufficiently clear information about employees' basic statutory rights and limiting unnecessary and confusing information about peripheral rights. Any employees who have questions or want further information may visit the NLRB's web site or call the agency's toll free telephone nwnbers; the Board's web site address and the phone numbers are appropriately identified in the notice.

      Finally, the UFCW proposes that, in addition to the sanctions for noncompliance included in the Board's proposed rule, the rule should provide that an employer's knowing failure to post the notice advising employees of their NLRA rights during the critical period preceding an election shall be grounds for setting aside the election whenever proper and timely objections are filed. Cf. 29 C.F.R. §103.20(d). During the critical period, employees are likely to be given conflicting information as to their rights by the parties to the election proceeding. Within this time frame, it is especially important that all bargaining unit employees receive accurate information concerning their NLRA rights from the agency entrusted by Congress with the administration and enforcement of the Act, particularly since employer misrepresentations are generally not objectionable under current Board law. See, e.g., Midland National Life Insurance Co., 262 NLRB 127 (1982).

      For the foregoing reasons, the UFCW supports the NLRB's proposed rule to require covered employers to notify employees of their NLRA rights.






Respectfully submitted,
t\\_
Edward P. Wendel, Gener1 Counsel Peter J. Ford, Assistant General Counsel United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
1775 K Street, NW Washington, DC 20006
(202) 466-1521




