American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations



,1:.oERAT!o,v
.,._v-	.
,v	<.
#.	11:-



815 Sixteenth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006
(202) 637-5000



RICHARD L. TRUMKA
PRESIDENT

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

ELIZABETH H. SHULER
SECRETARY-TREASURER



ARLENE HOLT BAKER
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT





...	•
n. AFL .

_'1
QI>
CIO "'

www.aflcio.org

Gerald W. McEntee Michael Goodwin Michael J. Sullivan

Michael Sacco William Lucy
Harold Schaitberger

Frank Hurt
Robert A. Scardelletti Edwin D. Hill

Patricia Friend
R. Thomas Buffenbarger
Joseph J. Hunt

i:.-_ !
<I' .	,;,-
0,<-	(:,
·.  NousrR1 1.

Clyde Rivers James Williams Larry Cohen Robbie Sparks Rose Ann DeMoro Matthew Loeb Diann Woodard
D. Michael Langford Baldemar Velasquez Bruce R. Smith James Andrews

Cecil Roberts Vincent Giblin Warren George Nancy Wohlforth Mark H. Ayers Randi Weingarten Patrick D. Finley Robert McEllrath John W. Wilhelm Bob King
Maria Elena Durazo

William Burrus William Hite
Gregory J. Junemann James C Little Richard P. Hughes Jr. Rogelio "Roy" A. Flores Malcolm B. Futhey Jr. Roberta Reardon
Ken Howard General Holiefield
Terence M. O'Sullivan

Leo W. Gerard John Gage Laura Rico
Capt. John Prater Fred Redmond Fredric V. Rolando Newton B. Jones DeMaurice F. Smith James Boland
Lee A. Saunders


April 6, 2011


OSHA Docket Office
Technical Data Center, Room N-2625 Occupational Safety and Health Administration
U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210

RE: Final Written Comments and Arguments
Walking-Working Surfaces and Personal Protective Equipment (Fall Protection Systems); Proposed Rule. Docket No. OSHA-2007-0072


Dear Sir or Madam:

The AFL-CIO strongly supports the agency's effort to modernize and update Subpart D and Subpart I of the general industry fall protection and walking­ working surface standards. Fall hazards remain one of the most serious problems faced by millions of workers. We are convinced that the proposed changes, when implemented as a result of promulgating a final rule, will prevent fatalities and reduce injuries from fall hazards. We urge OSHA to move forward expeditiously with the issuance of a final rule.


Section 1910.22 General Requirements

The language in proposed paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) that requires workplace surfaces to be clean has been interpreted by OSHA to apply to combustible dust accumulation associated with fire and explosion hazards. This interpretation has been a useful component of the agency's enforcement strategy for addressing this serious hazard.



1
,.,..,

However, OSHA asks whether it should include an explicit reference to combustible dust or other hazardous material in the regulatory language of the final rule. The AFL-CIO believes that OSHA should reference combustible dust in both paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of the final rule. In our view, an explicit referencing of combustible dust within each of these paragraphs is necessary to firmly clarify that combustible dust is covered by the language of these provisions. This view is supported in the record of this rulemaking by comments submitted by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0159.1, "Housekeeping - keeping combustible dust from accumulating on floors and other surfaces and keeping surfaces as free from dust as possible - is a critical aspect to mitigating and preventing combustible dust explosions".). Likewise, this position is supported by the AFL-CIO in its written comments and testimony (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0172.1, Hearing Ex. 13, and TR 01-20-2011, pp 219-220).

We understand that there is currently agency rulemaking in progress on combustible dust. The language specifically addressing combustible dust adopted in this rulemaking should not conflict with that which may emerge from the combustible dust rulemaking efforts (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0159.1).


Section 1910.28 Duty to Have Fall Protection

The rulemaking record provides strong support for OSHA's proposed requirement that employers continue to have a duty to provide protection in circumstances where a worker is exposed to falling 4 feet or more to a lower level. Supporters of this requirement include the International Safety Equipment Association (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-185.1), the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0226) and the AFL-CIO (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0172.1). The 4-foot rule maintains a long-standing OSHA requirement and industry practice that we believe is important for protecting workers against fall hazards to a lower level.


Section 1910.30 Training Requirements

The AFL-CIO fully agrees that new training requirements are necessary to ensure that workers can identify the fall hazards they face in their workplaces and understand how they can be protected.

However, paragraph (a), addressing the employer's requirement to provide training on fall hazards, is limited to each employee "who uses fall protection equipment". We believe that the training requirements in the final rule should not be confined only to those workers who use personal fall protection equipment.
Training requirements need to be expanded to include training for all workers

exposed to fall hazards over 4 feet (including those using ladders), those using portable guardrails, and for all workers using portable and fixed ladders.

Record evidence supports this perspective. As the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees stated in their comments, 'Training should not be limited to workers who use a specific fall protection system. All workers should have hazard recognition training that includes prevention of falls from any height or surface. Because ladders are so common in the workplace, they are often considered "safe". Yet many incident reports include injuries or near misses using a ladder. Any worker who is required to use a ladder in his/her work duties should get basic information on the use, care, and limitations of ladders." (Ex.
OSHA-2007-0072-0226). The AFL-CIO also supports this perspective as well (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0172.1).

Likewise, workers can also be exposed to the hazards of falls on the same level where training on hazard recognition and protective measures can be used to protect workers. Training focusing on falls at the same level needs to be included in OSHA's final rule. The record evidence fully supports the position that training needs to cover falls on the same level. The testimony of Russell Kendzior, President of the National Floor Safety Institute, established the impact of same level falls, "It is estimated that the current annual cost of same level falls tops more than 80 billion dollars a year."(TR 01-21-2011, pg 201) and breadth of the problem, "... there is no industry that is not affected by same level falls to which every worker in those industries is exposed." (TR 01-21-2011, pg 202). Clearly then, given the breadth and impact of the problem, the final rule must include training requirements that address falls on the same level if workers are to be adequately protected.

In Subpart M, Fall Protection under 1926.503(a)(1), construction employers are required by OSHA to provide training "for each employee who might be exposed to fall hazards". This training language is far more expansive than the agency's proposal for general industry training that limits training to workers who use fall protection equipment. If OSHA is committed to harmonizing its fall protection standards across industries, as it has proposed across much of this rule, and if it intends to comprehensively address all fall hazards that workers experience, it needs to expand the final rule's general industry training requirements like that in effect in construction and provide training for all workers who are exposed to fall hazards.


Issue #1 - Fall Protection on Rolling Stock and Motor Vehicles

In the proposed rule, OSHA requests additional comment and information on whether specific regulations are needed to cover falls from rolling stock and commercial motor vehicles (75 FR 28867- 28868). Based upon the record

evidence, the answer to whether specific regulations are needed is clearly in the affirmative.

There is broad support among written comments and testimony for including specific regulations covering rolling stock, including the International Safety Equipment Association (Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-185.1; TR 01-18-2011, pg 165) and the American Society of Safety Engineers ("ASSE supports including new, specific provisions in a final rule that would address fall protection from rolling stock and commercial motor vehicles.", Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-0127.1).

Likewise, testimony at this rulemaking's informal hearing indicate support for OSHA adding specific requirements for rolling stock and motor vehicles (Tom Wolner, Capital Safety-"/ think that we've proven that it's definitely feasible to do and people are doing it. Whether they include specific language to address that, I guess that's their decision. But I think from our perspective I see no reason why they should be exempted or excluded from having to provide protection." TR 01-18-2011, pp 91-92; Dan Shipp, International Safety Equipment Association, "/SEA would certainly endorse those as well."TR 01-18-2011, pg 165; Nigel Ellis, Ellis Fall Safety Solutions, "Rolling stock, I believe, should come under OSHA coverage regarding platforms and railings.", TR 01-21-2011, pg 252).

Furthermore, record evidence establishes that technologically and economically feasible means exist to provide fall protection to workers on rolling stock and motor vehicles, including examples of such means contained in the record.
Written comments from the International Safety Equipment Association attest to the feasibility, including examples of those means ("There are now overhead systems to protect workers from fall hazards when working on train/rail transportation." "See Appendix A for fall arrest systems for rolling stock and vehicles." Ex. OSHA-2007-0072-185.1). In hearing testimony, Mr. Shipp from ISEA stated, "It is our position that systems are available to protect workers on rolling stock. And as to the extent that working on rolling stock is a general industry occupation, it seems to us that it would be appropriate to cover that as well.", TR 01-18-2011, pg 166. Likewise, Tom Wolner, Capital Safety, has provided the record with examples of feasible methods to address fall hazards on rolling stock (TR 01-18-2011, pp 86 - 92) as has Cameron Baker, Standfast USA (TR 01-20-2011, pp140-162).

On the basis of the written comments, testimony, and evidence provided to the agency in this rulemaking, we believe OSHA is in a strong position to issue a final rule to update fall and walking/working surface protections in general industry. We urge the agency to move forward quickly toward issuing the rule as quickly as possible.

Sincerely,

Bill Kojola Industrial Hygienist
Safety and Health Department 202-637-5003
bkojola@aflcio.org


