Testimony of Eric Frumin, Health and Safety Director Workers United/SEIU
On
OSHA's Proposed Standards on Walking Working Surfaces and Fall Protection

OSHA Docket 2007-0072
Dec. 21, 2010

My testimony will cover three areas:

1) The inappropriate use of the "willingness to pay" model for monetizing estimated benefits in OSHA rulemaking
2) The urgent need to include agriculture within the scope of the standard.
3) The underreporting of worker injuries distorts the risk estimates for hazards covered by proposed standards.
4) The importance of caution when relying on "consensus standards" when those standards suffer from inadequate public and worker participation.

I. Willingness to Pay models are not appropriate for OSHA proceedings

The safety of workers is the primary concern of the OSHA Act, and therefore of the Secretary of Labor. This purpose was the clear intent of the Congress in passing the OSHAct in 1970, and has recognized by the Supreme Court in its decisions on standard-setting.

As the primary representatives of workers under the OSHAct, labor unions have strongly opposed the use of any economic analysis which relegates the value of workers to anything less than their full worth and dignity as people. In this context, we have strenuously objected to any efforts to reduce the value of workers' lives to a mere financial statistic. We are also aware that given the opportunity, the Supreme Court declined Secretary of Labor's request in 1981 to conduct a formal cost-benefit analysis, and then subsequently decided that cost-benefit analysis was not allowed under the OSHAct because "feasibility analysis" is required instead. (ATMI, 1981)

Since that decision, various efforts have been made to flout the Congress' intent, and to conduct analyses in which the lives of workers are reduced to a financial formula. Labor unions have continued to stenuously oppose such ill-informed and misguided efforts. For instance, attached is the position filed by the Building and Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO in OSHA's consideration of the standard on concrete and masonry construction, including a cover letter to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. It includes, in Section III starting on page 17, a critique of the Willingness to Pay approach generally and specifically of the work of W. Kip Viscusi as a primary proponent of this approach. OMB has continued to rely on Viscusi

since then, recently enshrining his unfounded theories in Circular A-4 on regulatory policy. OSHA has even used Viscusi's academic writings as justification for OSHA's economic modeling (see Ex. 9).

(Perhaps it is in keeping with the obscurity of the ethics of Viscusi's work that Ex. 9 is not available on-line to the public. In order to read and comment on Viscusi's work, one is required to literally come to OSHA's national office and read it there - allegedly due to copy write concerns. This is yet one other example of the undue influence of private parties in federal regulatory policy.)

We are not so naïve as to believe that there are no circumstances under which it may appropriate for regulatory agencies to use economic analyses in which the benefits are monetized. There may well be appropriate circumstances for such analyses in which the benefits are primarily ones involving human health.

However, we are deeply disturbed by the severe ethical, moral and intellectual dilemmas involved in asking workers to put a price on their own lives. These theories are based on a fantastical notion that workers are fully informed about the risks to which they are submitted by their own employers.

And if that were ever true, it is especially the case for workers in two industries at issue in this rulemaking - the farmworkers who are not even covered by this proceeding, and the window cleaners whose lives are literally hanging by a thread. We know from bitter experience that many employers are all too ready to put these workers' lives and health at risk, and think little about the necessity of fully training the workers about those hazards. Whatever slim theoretical foundation Viscusi and others may have found in other sectors for their theories about worker behavior, there is no evidence in these industries that workers in general have been provided with the fundamental information about the detailed hazards and the risks that those hazards pose.
Indeed, there is ample evidence of the contrary - that employers routinely fail to train workers, even where OSHA or other accepted standards require such training.

In sum, we strenuously object to OMB's continued application of this unethical and ill-founded methodology for evaluating the benefits of the proposed regulation. It is unnecessary for OSHA to do so in order to comply with its mandate to determine the economic feasibility of its proposed standard, and we call upon OSHA to cease performing such analyses forthwith. OSHA has ample alternatives available to it, and OMB should have already recognized the legitimacy of such alternatives - none of which would require the offensive monetization of workers lives and health.

II. Urgent need to include agriculture within the scope of the standard.

Farmworkers have been routinely excluded from OSHA standards for decades. The rationale for doing so was usually unstated, and the practice persisted only because no one generally objected. IN one case, involving the Hazard Communication Standard, however, the objection was overwhelming - in part because agriculture was only one of a wide range of industries which

were unreasonably excluded. In response to the challenges to that decision, the Court of Appeals clearly held that the Secretary of Labor's discretion (in Section 6(g) of the Act) in setting standards was not absolute. The Court specifically held that the Secretary had an obligation to regulate the same hazards if they exist elsewhere and the Secretary is capable of regulating those hazards:

Section 6(g) clearly permits the Secretary to set priorities for the use of the agency's resources, and to promulgate standards sequentially. Once a standard has been promulgated, however, the Secretary may exclude a particular industry only if he informs the reviewing court, not merely that the sector selected for coverage presents greater hazards, but also why it is not feasible for the same standard to be applied in other sectors where workers are exposed to similar hazards. United Steelworkers v Auchter, 73 F. 2d 728, 32-33.

If ever there were an instance where the regulation of hazards is roughly equivalent in both agriculture and the many sectors covered by this standard, it is walking-working surfaces such as ladders. Indeed, given the exceptionally high rates of both fatal and non-fatal injuries suffered this grievous the error of omission, and act forthwith to expand the scope of this rulemaking.

It is now over 40 years since the Congress passed the OSHAct, and promised the nation's workers safe and healthful working conditions. The lives of farmworkers have never received the consideration that the Secretary should have accorded them, with rare exception.1

It is high time that the Secretary began to make good on the Nation's promise to its workers.

III. The underreporting of worker injuries distorts the risk estimates for hazards covered by proposed standards.

      The widespread and growing problem of employer retaliation against injured workers, and the subsequent reduction of employer recording of workplace injuries as well as fraudulent employer recording practices, have been identified as a serious national problem by both the Congress and multiple academic researchers. This problem was recently the focus of a landmark hearing by the House Education and Labor Committee, including a detailed report on these issues. 2,3 OSHA itself has undertaken a National Emphasis Program, at the direction of the US Congress,4 to better uncover employer violations of injury/illness recordkeeping requirements.5

1 The epic struggle for a Field Sanitation Standard is the primary example of a Secretary's effort to take seriously the perils of agricultural labor.
2 Hidden Tragedy: Underreporting Of Workplace Injuries And Illnesses; Hearing Before The Committee On Education And Labor, U.S. House Of Representatives, Washington, DC, June 19, 2008.
3 Hidden Tragedy: Underreporting Of Workplace Injuries And Illnesses, A Majority Staff Report By The Committee On Education And Labor, U.S. House Of Representatives, June, 2008.
4 Committee On Appropriations, U.S. Senate, on H.R. 3293, Rept. 111-66, Aug. 4, 2009: "The Committee continues to be concerned that a significant proportion of work-related injuries and illnesses appear not to be captured on the OSHA Log of Work-related Injuries and Illnesses or in the annual BLS Survey of Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. The Committee understands that several recent studies have found that the BLS survey may miss from 25 percent to 70 percent of all nonfatal injuries and illnesses, when compared to State workers' compensation information... the Committee believes the apparent level of

While neither BLS nor OSHA has been able to accurately quantify the overall effect of this serious problem on our official estimates of worker injuries, we view the BLS data - based as it is on employers as the source recordkeepers - with great concern. We and others are convinced that employer underrecording, combined with the deliberate workplace incentives that discourage workers from reporting injuries in the first place, result in serious underestimates of the risks of injury and illness. It is important that OSHA acknowledge these potential errors - even while it relies upon the BLS data as the "best available evidence" required under Section 6 of the Act.

Not surprisingly, this problem is significant in the agricultural sector in particular. Published research on occupational hazards in agriculture is frequently accompanied with the cautionary preface that farmworker injury data may be materially under-reported. Several unique features of the agricultural work force and work place combine to hinder accurate measurement. These features include the migrant and seasonal nature of the work force, poor English skills and educational attainment of workers, and workers' distrust of authorities to whom injuries might be reported. Moreover, most farmworkers are poor and can ill afford to stop working to treat injuries if at all avoidable, and they often fear losing their jobs if they take time off. Workers also lack awareness of their employment rights, and may perceive reporting injuries as construed by employers as complaints, thus causing fears of reprisal. The majority of farmworkers are immigrants; most lack proper work permits and thus fear deportation if they call attention to
themselves. Finally, workers' dependence on labor contractors for daily needs of transportation, housing, and livelihood poses an obstacle in reporting on problems at the worksite. For these reasons, despite best efforts of data collection, survey driven assessments of agricultural occupational risks are most likely to underestimate the true burdens of work-related injury and illness among farmworkers.6




under-reporting raises serious questions, particularly when firms may have economic incentives to underreport and workers may fear retaliation for reporting injuries... Committee directs OSHA to continue oversight and enforcement of its recordkeeping standard to ensure complete and accurate
recording and reporting by employers... The Committee intends for this effort to enable OSHA to review the completeness and accuracy of individual employers' injury and illness records and determine whether there are employer policies or practices in place that cause incomplete reporting of injuries and illnesses by employees."

5	OSHA Enforcement Directive CPL 02-10-07, September 28, 2010, Injury and Illness Recordkeeping National Emphasis Program (RK NEP).
6	See, e.g., Mines R, An Evaluation of the Gathering of Occupational Injury Data by the National Agricultural Workers Survey (NAWS), submitted to the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy, U.S. Department of Labor, July 13, 2004, at p. 30; Stoskopf CH, Venn J, Farm Accidents and injuries: a review and ideas for prevention, J. Environ Health (1984), at 47:250-252; McCurdy SA, Carroll DJ, Agricultural Injury. Am J Ind. Med. (2000), at 38(4); Hofmann J, Snyder K, Keifer M, A descriptive study of workers' compensation claims in Washington state orchards, Occupational Medicine (2006), at 56: 251-257.

IV. OSHA must exercise caution when relying on "consensus standards" when those standards suffer from inadequate public and worker participation.

This proceeding has received evidence of various failures of the consensus-standard-setting process. This evidence must receive the closest scrutiny, to assure that any significant problems with the standard-setting process are evaluated and remedied.

National Consensus Standards have played a critically important role in the history of the OSHAct, and in providing effective protections to workers. Indeed, the Index of the Legislative History of the Act includes no less than 35 separate references to these standards, of which 15 were in official reports of the House and Senate Committees which considered this legislation. National Consensus Standards are accorded special status in Section 6 of the Act, and the Secretary's consideration of them is mandated in relation to other actions on the same issues.

Thus, if there is any evidence that this special consideration is unjustified, it must be taken seriously. Failure to do so risks undermining the confidence which all parties - government, employer, labor, and the public - must have if we are to continue to reliance on consensus standards as an effective contributor to the standard-setting process.


Respectfully Submitted,


Eric Frumin, Director Occupational Safety and Health Workers United/SEIU
646-448-6415


