

VIA FACSIMILE
202/6931648


DEC 1 7 2010




December 16, 2010


OSHA Docket Office
Docket number - OSHA-2007-0072 Technical Data Center
U.S. Department of Labor, Room N-2625 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington DC 20210

RE: Notice of Intention to Appear, Informal public hearing Docket number - OSHA-2007-0072
Submission of testimony and intent to present documentary evidence

The UFCW International Union intends to present testimony and documentary evidence at the public hearing on Walking-Working Surfaces and Personal Protective Equipment (Fall Protection Systems) scheduled to begin in Washington DC on January 18, 2011 and requests 20 minutes.

The following is the testimony that will be presented. Please note the addition of documentary ev.idence. We will present further documentary evidence at the hearing, as we are continuing to gather it at the time of this submission.


I am Jacqueline Nowell, the Director of the Occupational Safety and Health Office of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents approximately 900 food manufacturing facilities in the United States. I am here testifying to my deep concern regarding proposed changes to OSHA standards for Walking Working Surfaces and Personal Protective Equipment.

Although many of the proposed changes meet OSHA's goals of improved clarity and consistency between General Industry and Construction requirements, there are a few changes that would be detrimental to the safety of the workers we represent.
1910,28(b)(vi)
My gravest concern is with 1910.28(b)(vi). OSHA's proposed exception to the requirement for guardrails or other fall protection on the working side of platfbrms

in slaughtering facilities. This exception is inappropriate and fails to protect the thousands of workers who would be affected. Work platforms in the meatpacking industry are becoming increasingly common and are built to greater heights.
OSHA has cited meatpacking plants in the past on the need to protect workers from fall hazards from kill floor platforms [Excel Corp, Dodge City, KS, #302756762, 4/28/2000), under 19 CFR 1910.23(c)(1)]

Many employers, including Cargill Meat Solutions in Dodge City, KS and Tyson Fresh Meats (communication with EHS Director, December 15, 2010), nationally, have successfully implemented travel restraint systems for use on these platforms. Just as there is no question about the feasibility of these systems, there should be no question about the compelling need for them. Falls from platforms in slaughtering facilities are especially dangerous because of the universal use of knives and other sharp instruments. A case in point is the 1999 Sioux City fatality when a worker apparently walked off the end of the work platform and fell onto his knife. It penetrated the right side of his chest cavity, went through the back side of his heart and exited on the front side. He was rushed to the medical dispensary, where he was treated until the ambulance arrived. He was transported to a hospital in Sioux City, IA, where he was pronounced dead (Accident: 200050797).	I urge OSHA to reconsider this unnecessary and dangerous exception.

Documentary evidence will be presented on·this case and one other recently reported to us. We will be researching the new case and hope to have the evidence at the date of the hearing. As well, we are identifying meat companies here and in Europe who have successfully implemented or are in the process of implementing fall protection systems to prevent falls from kill floor work platforms,


1910.22 (a)(2)
The Agency requested comments on whether it would be appropriate to use language similar to that in 1915.152 in which employers are allowed to provide waterproof footwear where it is not practicable to control wet, slippery floors through the use of proper drainage or the provision of false floors, platforms, mats or other dry standing places.

I urge OSHA not to include this provision. By specifically offering the employer the option 9f providing PPE, OSHA will have the unintended effect of negating the original requirement to eliminate the hazard or control it through engineering controls. We have seen a similar unfortunate dynamic in the implementation and enforcement of 1910.95(b)(1) which supposedly allows the use of PPE only after the implementation of feasible administrative and engineering controls. Our experience has been that once excessive sound levels have been determined, most employers embrace the use of hearing protection, and the implementation of engineering controls is perfunctory or ignored altogether.

Employers are already required to provide Personal Protective Equipment for hazards that cannot be eliminated by other means. The mention of waterproof boots in 1910.22 does nothing to strengthen 1910.132, and may dilute the requirement to control wet and/or slippery floors.

If, however, OSHA decides to retain the option of PPE in 1910.22, skid resistance should be a required property of the footgear. In some cases slip-or skid resistance is more important for safety than water-resistance. As a deterrent to the default use of PPE in place of engineering or administrative controls, all mention of PPE should clearly state the employer obligation to pay for it.


1910.25 (a) (8)
We support OSHA's requirement for standard stairs for "access from one walking-working surtace to another where operations necessitate regular and routine travel between levels... "

This language is necessary to provide safe travel in the meatpacking industry where work platforms are routinely used and where workers may be required to carry tools or equipment by hand. Non-standard stairs are not safe in these applications.


1910.25 (a}(9)
OSHA proposes to allow the use of spiral stairs, ship stairs, or alternating tread­ type stairs under conditions of 11special, limited usage". Although OSHA does not define "special, limited usage", the Agency refers to the ICC Building Code definition as "a space not more than 250 square feet (23 square meters) in area and serving not more than five occupants''.

Work platforms in many packing houses would meet this definition of "special, limited usage." By allowing the use of spiral stairs or other nonwstandard stairs, OSHA would be introducing a new and unnecessary hazard to the workers who must climb up and down from these platforms multiple times a day, wearing heavy and bulky layers of personal protective equipment. I urge OSHA to develop a more restricted definition of ''special, limited usage" in order to prevent falls and other injuries to these workers.


Special exception for inspections
A number of commenters have indicated their support for an exception to the personal fall protection requirements for employees who are making an inspection, investigation, or assessment of workplace conditions prior to the actual start of construction work or after all construction has been completed. This exception would be consistent with existing language in 1926.500


The UFCW is concerned that this exception could be erroneously applied in situations in which routine (i.e., daily or weekly) inspections are required for piping and valving systems covered by PSM. Ammonia refrigeration systems often comprise miles of piping and hundreds of valves and other system components located on rooftops. These systems must be inspected carefully and regularly regardless of weather conditions. Safe access in the form of steps, ladders, and platforms with adequate railings are necessary not only to ensure the safety of the inspectors, but also to ensure thorough and consistent inspections.

If OSHA decides to make an exception for inspection activities, any exception for occasional inspection activities must be narrow and specific enough to preclude the misapplication of the exception to routine inspection activities.

The safety director of the International Chemicals Workers Union states: "Ideally engineering controls like rails and guards would be the first choice but in lieu of that then fall arrest systems at a minimum or perhaps in conjunction with, depending on special circumstances, for example near the edge and railings have not been installed.1'

The UFCW will be presenting evidence of the frequency of roof-top inspections, the hazards of conducting inspections on flat roofs, as well as the feasibility of installing railings.



Sincerely,





Jacqueline Nowell
Director, Occupational Safety and Health Office








