



RA N D E L K. JO H N S ON 
S e n i o r V ICE P R E S I D E N T
L A B O R , I M M I G R A T I O N & E M P L O Y E E
B E N E F I T S

CH A M B E R O F CO M M E R C E
O F T H E
UN I T E D ST A T E S O F AM E R I C A

1615 H S T R E E T , N . W .
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20062 2 0 2 / 4 6 3 - 5448 





MA R C D. FR E E D M A N
E x e c u t i v e D i r e c t o r , L a b o r L a w P o l i c y L A B O R , I M M I G R A T I O N & E M P L O Y E E
B E N E F I T S






OSHA Docket Office
Docket No. OSHA-2007-0072
U.S. Department of Labor Room N-2625
200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20210

August 23, 2010


By electronic submission: http://www.regulations.gov

Re:	Comments on Docket No. OSHA--2007-0072, Walking-Working Surfaces and Personal Protective Equipment (Fall Protection Systems); 75 Fed. Reg. 28862 (May 24, 2010)

To the Docket:

      The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the world's largest business federation with over three million members, represents businesses of all sizes and in every market sector and throughout
the United States. Many of these will be directly affected by OSHA's proposed revisions to the walking-working surfaces standard. While the U.S. Chamber understands the need to revise this standard, and supports improving consistency between the general industry provisions and the construction industry provisions, we remain concerned about certain provisions and approaches taken by OSHA in this rulemaking.

      In particular, we believe OSHA should have conducted a SBREFA panel review to develop better input from small entities affected by this proposal; we urge OSHA not to include a reference to combustible dust under 29 CFR 1910.22; we think OSHA could do more to remove inconsistencies between the general industry and construction industry standards; we believe the exemption for certain workers under the construction industry standard should be carried over to the general industry standard; and we wonder why this proposal is projected to save only 20 lives per year when OSHA indicates that about 300 lives per year are lost in falls.

OSHA Should Have Performed a SBREFA Panel Review Even if It Did Not Have To

      While OSHA did an extensive Initial Regulatory Flexibility Screening Analysis to determine that the economic impact would not be significant, the key component of OSHA compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act as modified by the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act (SBREFA) that the agency declined to undertake was the SBREFA panel review. This involves convening a panel of representatives from the agency, OMB's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) and the SBA's Office of Advocacy. The

panel then receives comments from selected small entity representatives who will be affected by the proposed regulation. OSHA is required to conduct such a review when a proposed regulation will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.1 Clearly this new standard will affect a substantial number of small entities and OSHA would have benefited from conducting a SBREFA panel review.

      Even if OSHA has demonstrated that the economic impact will not be significant, the agency still had the option and authority to take advantage of the SBREFA process and to benefit from the input and data from small business entities in this process. OSHA's decision to forgo SBREFA panel review for this rulemaking is even more troubling when one considers that the agency has undertaken SBREFA reviews with a number of rulemakings that have impacted a smaller number of workplaces and employees than this proposed walking-working surfaces revision will impact. For example, OSHA completed a SBREFA review for its diacetyl rulemaking, which the agency admitted will impact only 139 establishments with an estimated 8,972 employees. The agency has also used the SBREFA process voluntarily for rulemakings on cranes and derricks in construction (164,500 establishments and 2.2 million employees impacted); confined spaces in construction (where the estimated impact on small entities was below its own threshold for SBREFA-percentage of profits for compliance between 0.23 and
4.4 percent which places the impact below the 5 percent threshold-potential impact on 86,012 small entities and 921,831 employees); and electric power generation, transmission, and distribution (12,619 small entities).

      In contrast, this rulemaking will have a direct effect on a wide array of employers, both large and small, across all types of operations. This rulemaking is broader in application than many of the rulemakings noted above, with new requirements for training, and associated levels of personal protection. There are a large number of variables that will determine how these requirements will actually impact employers, especially small employers, and the agency would have benefited from the opportunity to obtain data and information from small employers. This is particularly true with respect to OSHA's effort to synchronize the general industry and construction industry provisions where small businesses are most likely to be confused and would have been able to provide useful input on achieving this goal. The scope of this regulation is so broad, and it will impose fall protection on so many workplaces for the first time, that OSHA should have conducted a panel to gather from affected entities direct information on how to better tailor this regulation. The Chamber urges OSHA to conduct a SBREFA panel review before proceeding to a final regulation.

OSHA Should Not Use This Rulemaking to Regulate Combustible Dust

      In the preamble, OSHA states that it seeks comment on whether it should include an explicit reference to combustible dust or other hazardous materials in the regulatory language of the proposed rule under Section 1910.22. 2 Once again OSHA is trying to leverage an unrelated rulemaking to advance its interest in developing a standard on combustible dust. This is similar

1 5 U.S.C. 605 (b), 609 (b).
2 75 Fed. Reg. 28874, section 1910.22(a)(1) states that "All places of employment, passageways, storerooms, and
service rooms shall be kept clean and orderly, and in a sanitary condition."
.

to the approach taken by the agency in the rulemaking on modifying the Hazard Communication Standard under the Global Harmonized System for hazard notification where the agency created a new category for "unclassified hazards" and specifically offered combustible dust as the signature example.3

      Combustible dust is a multi-variable hazard which is complex and not amenable to a simple characterization such as OSHA has proposed to include in this rulemaking. As there is no definition or standard for what constitutes combustible dust, there is no way OSHA should include a reference to it in this standard as if the term is commonly known and employers will understand when they have such an amount of dust present. Furthermore, for a dust to be combustible requires more than just a specific accumulation, there must also be a source of ignition and other conditions in place. Merely telling employers that the walking/working surfaces are not to have a level of dust that would be combustible gives them no guidance, serves no workplace safety purpose, and will only lead to OSHA having another source for citations. If OSHA wishes to regulate combustible dust hazards the only acceptable way is for the agency to continue with the rulemaking that has been initiated.4

OSHA Should Resolve More of the Remaining Inconsistencies between Construction Fall Protection and This Proposed Standard for General Industry

      One of OSHA's acknowledged goals for this rulemaking is to synchronize the fall protection requirements in the construction and general industry sectors. The Chamber supports this goal but believes OSHA can and should do more to achieve it.

      Issues such as a clear delineation between maintenance and repair (general industry) and construction activities remain, leading to confusion among employers about which standard applies under what circumstances. This could give rise to situations where two employees could be working side by side on similar tasks, but one could be covered by the general industry standard and the other by the construction standard. Another distinction between the two regulatory regimes which could be resolved is the trigger height for requiring fall protection.
OSHA makes very clear that under the general industry standard this trigger has historically been 4 feet while the construction fall protection trigger is 6 feet.5 Again, this could lead to employees performing similar, or identical, duties with very different levels of protection. There does not seem to be any obvious reason why if 6 feet is an adequate threshold for construction employees, it cannot also be an adequate threshold for general industry employees. The Chamber encourages OSHA to work closely with the Directorate of Construction to revise this proposed regulation and further synchronize the two sets of requirements. Doing so will help eliminate confusion and increase the effectiveness of this regulation.


3 See, 74 Fed. Reg. 50395. The Chamber objected to this approach in the comments submitted during that rulemaking; see Comments from U.S. Chamber of Commerce to OSHA Docket No. H022K-2006-0062, submitted December 29, 2009.
4 The Chamber submitted comments on OSHA's Combustible Dust ANPRM making clear the complexities associated with regulating combustible dust hazards and urging OSHA to take the different variables into account when developing such a regulation; see Comments from U.S. Chamber to Docket No. OSHA-2009-0023, submitted January 19, 2010.
5 75 Fed. Reg. 28887.

OSHA Should Exempt Certain General Industry Employees Similar to Exemptions Under the Construction Fall Protection Standard

      The current construction fall protection standard has the following exception to employees that are covered: "The provisions of this subpart do not apply when employees are making an inspection, investigation, or assessment of workplace conditions prior to the actual start of construction work or after all construction work has been completed."6 Various employers in the general industry sector, such as insurance companies with their adjusters, have employees that perform the same type of duties and for which full compliance with the fall protection requirements is both impractical (their exposure is very short in duration) and unsafe (constructing the necessary guard rails, or fall arrest systems would put them at more risk and potentially damage the structure being inspected). Accordingly, a similar exception to coverage under the general industry fall protection requirements should be included. As an alternative, these employees should be required to be trained as required under Section 1910.30, or to avail themselves of already existing and installed fall protection measures.

OSHA's Calculations of Lives This Regulation Will Save Is Surprisingly Low

      We note with some surprise that OSHA's analysis suggests this new regulation will have a relatively minor impact on the total number of fatalities attributed to falls from height. OSHA claims that for the years 1992-2007 there were an average of 300 fatal falls per year from height. OSHA calculates that this standard will result in 20 fewer fatal falls per year.7 We do not mean to diminish the significance of saving 20 lives, but OSHA seems to be projecting less impact than a standard of this scope would suggest. Indeed, OSHA even admits in the preamble that:

For the purposes of this analysis, OSHA did not attempt a quantitative analysis of how many fatal falls could be prevented by full and complete compliance with the existing standard. However a qualitative examination of the fatal falls to a lower level shows that a majority, and perhaps a large majority, could be prevented by full compliance with the existing regulations.8 (emphasis added)

      This raises questions about whether such a sweeping new standard as this one, which will create confusion and new enforcement exposures, is indeed warranted, or if OSHA would achieve the same or better results by generating more complete compliance with current requirements.

Conclusion

      The Chamber supports OSHA's desire to insure that general industry employees have appropriate fall protection consistent with that used by construction industry employees, and employers have clear guidance on what is required of them. While this proposed regulation makes significant strides in these directions, OSHA could do more and achieve greater benefits in protections and consistency between the two sets of standards. Steps such as OSHA

6 29 CFR 1926.500 (a)(1).
7 75 Fed. Reg. 28865-6.
8 75 Fed. Reg. 28998.

conducting a SBREFA panel review and working closely with the Directorate of Construction would enhance OSHA's ability to get the most results from this rulemaking. Finally, OSHA should only regulate combustible dust hazards through a full rulemaking dedicated to that hazard, such as the one already underway, not through inserting vague references to an undefined combustible dust hazard into other unrelated regulations such as this one.

Respectfully submitted,


Randel K. Johnson	Marc Freedman
Senior Vice President	Executive Director of Labor Law Policy Labor, Immigration & Employee Benefits	 Labor, Immigration & Employee Benefits


